

=== PAGE 1 ===
1
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
BSA Electronic Filing Requirements For
Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts
(FinCEN Form 114)
Release Date January 2017 (v1.4)
Effective January 2017 for the 2017 or earlier filing
requirement.

=== PAGE 2 ===
2
Revision History
Version
Number
Date  Reason  for  Change
1.0  09/30/2013  Initial  Version
1.1  3/14/2014  Conversion  Rate  –  Incorrect  Link:
Updated  Page  9,  Second  Paragraph starting  with  Step  2,  Second  Sentence,  previous  text:
  Convert  foreign  currency  by  using  the  Treasury's  Financial  Management  Service
rate  (select  Exchange  Rates  under  Reference  &  Guidance  at  www.fms.treas.gov)
for  the  last  day  o f  the  calendar  year.
New text:
  Convert  foreign currency  by  using  the  Treasury's  Financial  Management  Service
rate  (http://www.fms.treas.gov/intn.html)  for  the  last  day  o f  the  calendar  year.
Amendment  Instructions  Clarification:
Updated  Page  7,  Second  Paragraph  from  Bottom  o f  Page,  entitled Amended  Reports,
previous  text:
  Amended  reports:  An  amended  report  must  be  filed  whenever  errors  are
discovered  in  a  previously - filed  FBAR.  Please  refer  to  the  BSA  Electronic  Filing
Requirements  Attachment  B  –  Error  Correction  Instructions  for information
regarding  filing  amended  FBARs.
New  Text:
  Amended  reports:  If  you  filed  your  FBAR  through the  BSA  E - Filing  website  and
you  need  to  amend  your  FBAR  to  correct  any  information,  please  fill  out  a  new
FBAR  completely  and  check  the  Amend  b o x  in  Item  1.  You  will  need  to  provide
your Prior  Report  BSA  Identifier  after  selecting  the  Amend  box.  Your  Prior  Report
BSA  Identifier  was  provided  to  you  either through  email  o r  via  the  BSA  E - Filing
System’s secure  messaging  feature.  If  your  Prior  Report  BSA  Identifier  is  not
known,  please enter  00000000000000  in  the  Prior  Report  BSA  Identifier  field.
  If  your  FBAR  was  filed using  batch  mode,  an  amended  report  must  be  filed
whenever  errors  are  discovered  in  a  previously - filed  FBAR.  Please  refer  to  the  BSA
Electronic  Filing  Requirements  Attachment  B  –  Error  Correction  Instructions
(http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/docs/FinCENFBARElectronicFilingRequirements
.pd f)  for  information  regarding  filing  amended  FBARs.

=== PAGE 3 ===
3
1.2  3/28/2014  Telephone  Numbers  –  Additional  Instruction  –  Page  9
Added  the  following  sentence  to  the  end  of  the  description:
Telephone  numbers  that  are  part  of  the  North  American  Numbering  Plan  should  not
be  preceded  with  a  “1”.
Monetary  Amounts  –  Additional  Instruction  –  Page  10
Added  the  following  sentence  to  the  end  of  the  description:
Note:  After determining  the value  of  the  account,  as  described  below,  if  the  value  results  in  a
negative  (minus)  value,  enter  zero  (0)  in  Item  15,  Maximum  Account  Value.
1.3  6/11/2014  Filing  requirement  for  minors  clarified  on  Page  6.
Added  the  following  additional  text:
Responsibility  for  Child’s FBAR
Generally,  a  child  is  responsible  for  filing  his  or  her  own  FBAR  report.  If  a  child cannot file  his
or  her  own  FBAR  for  any  reason,  such  as  age,  the  child's  parent,  guardian,  or  other  legally
responsible  person  must  file  it  for  the child.
Signing  the  child's  FBAR.  If  the child  cannot  sign  his  or  her  FBAR,  a  parent  or  guardian  must
electronically sign  the child's  FBAR.  In  item  45 Filer  Title  enter “Parent/Guardian  filing  for
child.”
1.4  1/1/2017  As  mandated by the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement
Act of 2015, Public Law 114 - 41  (the Act) , the annual due date for filing FBAR s  is April
15 th .  The Act also mandated  a maximum six - month extension of the filing  deadline.
FinCEN will grant filers failing to meet the FBAR annual due date of April 15 th  an automatic
extension to October 15 th  each year.

=== PAGE 4 ===
4
FBAR - Electronic Filing Instructions
The following instructions apply only to the electronic filing of the Report of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts (FBAR), FinCEN Form 114, through the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network ’ s (FinCEN ’ s) BSA E-Filing System. Unless specifically mentioned in the text, these
instructions do not apply to any other current or prior Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) reports. Also, the
instructions or requirements for any prior or current BSA reports, including paper versions of
the FBAR, do not apply to FBARs filed electronically under these filing requirements and
instructions.
General Instructions
Purpose.  FinCEN Form 114, Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, is used to report a
financial interest in or signature authority over a foreign financial account. The FBAR must be
received by the Department of the Treasury on or before April 15th of the year immediately
following the calendar year being reported.  FinCEN will grant filers failing to meet the FBAR
annual due date of April 15 th  an automatic extension to October 15 th  each year.  Accordingly,
specific requests for this extension are not required.
Who Must File an FBAR.  A United States person that has a financial interest in or signature
authority over foreign financial accounts must file an FBAR if the aggregate value of the foreign
financial accounts exceeds $10,000 at any time during the calendar year. See General
Definitions, to determine who is a United States person.
General Definitions:
Financial Account.  A financial account includes, but is not limited to, a securities, brokerage,
savings, demand, checking, deposit, time deposit, or other account maintained with a financial
institution (or other person performing the services of a financial institution). A financial
account also includes a commodity futures or options account, an insurance policy with a cash
value (such as a whole life insurance policy), an annuity policy with a cash value, and shares in
a mutual fund or similar pooled fund (i.e., a fund that is available to the general public with a
regular net asset value determination and regular redemptions).
Joint Account.  A financial account type listed above owned jointly by two or more persons.
Foreign Financial Account.  A foreign financial account is a financial account located outside of
the United States. For example, an account maintained with a branch of a United States bank
that is physically located outside of the United States is a foreign financial account. An account
maintained with a branch of a foreign bank that is physically located in the United States is not
a foreign financial account.

=== PAGE 5 ===
5
Financial Interest.  A United States person has a financial interest in a foreign financial account
for which:
1.  the United States person is the owner of record or holder of legal title, regardless of
whether the account is maintained for the benefit of the United States person or for the
benefit of another person; or
2.  the owner of record or holder of legal title is one of the following:
a.  An agent, nominee, attorney, or a person acting in some other capacity on behalf
of the United States person with respect to the account;
b.  A corporation in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly: (i)
more than 50 percent of the total value of shares of stock or (ii) more than 50
percent of the voting power of all shares of stock;
c.  A partnership in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly: (i)
an interest in more than 50 percent of the partnership's profits (e.g., distributive
share of partnership income taking into account any special allocation
agreement) or (ii) an interest in more than 50 percent of the partnership capital;
d.  A trust of which the United States person: (i) is the trust grantor and (ii) has an
ownership interest in the trust for United States federal tax purposes. See 26
U.S.C. sections 671-679 to determine if a grantor has an ownership interest in a
trust;
e.  A trust in which the United States person has a greater than 50 percent present
beneficial interest in the assets or income of the trust for the calendar year; or
f.  Any other entity in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly
more than 50 percent of the voting power, total value of equity interest or assets,
or interest in profits.
Person.  A person means an individual (including a minor child) and legal entities including,
but not limited to, a limited liability company, corporation, partnership, trust, and estate.
Signature Authority.  Signature authority is the authority of an individual (alone or in
conjunction with another individual) to control the disposition of assets held in a foreign
financial account by direct communication (whether in writing or otherwise) to the bank or
other financial institution that maintains the financial account. See Exceptions, Signature
Authority.
United States.  For FBAR purposes, the United States includes the States, the District of
Columbia, all United States territories and possessions (e.g., American Samoa, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam,
and the United States Virgin Islands), and the Indian lands as defined in the Indian Gaming
Regulatory Act. References to the laws of the United States include the laws of the United States
federal government and the laws of all places listed in this definition.
United States Person.  United States person means United States citizens (including minor
children); United States residents; entities, including but not limited to, corporations,
partnerships, or limited liability

=== PAGE 6 ===
6
companies created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States; and
trusts or estates formed under the laws of the United States.
Note.  The federal tax treatment of an entity does not determine whether the entity has an FBAR
filing requirement. For example, an entity that is disregarded for purposes of Title 26 of the
United States Code must file an FBAR, if otherwise required to do so. Similarly, a trust for
which the trust income, deductions, or credits are taken into account by another person for
purposes of Title 26 of the United States Code must file an FBAR, if otherwise required to do so.
Responsibility for  Child’s  FBAR
Generally, a child is responsible for filing his or her own FBAR report.  If a child cannot file his
or her own FBAR for any reason, such as age, the child's parent, guardian, or other legally
responsible person must file it for the child.
Signing the child's FBAR.  If the child cannot sign his or her FBAR, a parent or guardian must
electronically sign the child's FBAR. In item 45 Filer Title enter  “Parent/Guardian  filing for
child.”
United States Resident.  A United States resident is an alien residing in the United States. To
determine if the filer is a resident of the United States apply the residency tests in 26 U.S.C.
section 7701(b). When applying the residency tests, use the definition of United States in these
instructions.
Exceptions:
Certain Accounts Jointly Owned by Spouses. The spouse of an individual who files an FBAR is
not required to file a separate FBAR if the following conditions are met:  (1)  all the financial
accounts that the non-filing spouse is required to report are jointly owned with the filing
spouse;  2)  the filing spouse reports the jointly owned accounts on a timely filed FBAR
electronically signed; and  (3)  the filers have completed and signed Form 114a,  “ Record of
Authorization to Electronically File FBAR ’ s ”  (maintained with the filer s’  records). Otherwise,
both spouses are required to file separate FBARs, and each spouse must report the entire value
of the jointly owned accounts. See instructions for specific items, Part III, Items 25-33.
Consolidated FBAR.  If a United States person that is an entity is named in a consolidated FBAR
filed by a greater than 50 percent owner, such entity is not required to file a separate FBAR. See
Explanations for Specific Items, Part V.
Correspondent/Nostro Account.  Correspondent or nostro accounts (which are maintained by
banks and used solely for bank-to-bank settlements) are not required to be reported.
Governmental Entity.  A foreign financial account of any governmental entity of the United
States (as defined above) is not required to be reported by any person. For purposes of this
form, governmental entity includes a college or university that is an agency of, an

=== PAGE 7 ===
7
instrumentality of, owned by, or operated by a governmental entity. For purposes of this form,
governmental entity also includes an employee retirement or welfare benefit plan of a
governmental entity.
International Financial Institution.  A foreign financial account of any international financial
institution (if the United States government is a member) is not required to be reported by any
person.
IRA Owners and Beneficiaries.  An owner or beneficiary of an IRA is not required to report a
foreign financial account held in the IRA.
Participants in and Beneficiaries of Tax-Qualified Retirement Plans.  A participant in or
beneficiary of a retirement plan described in Internal Revenue Code section 401(a), 403(a), or
403(b) is not required to report a foreign financial account held by or on behalf of the
retirement plan.
Signature Authority.  Individuals who have signature authority over, but no financial interest
in, a foreign financial account are not required to report the account in the following situations:
1.  An officer or employee of a bank that is examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union
Administration is not required to report signature authority over a foreign financial
account owned or maintained by the bank.
2.  An officer or employee of a financial institution that is registered with and examined by
the Securities and Exchange Commission or Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
not required to report signature authority over a foreign financial account owned or
maintained by the financial institution.
3.  An officer or employee of an Authorized Service Provider is not required to report
signature authority over a foreign financial account that is owned or maintained by an
investment company that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Authorized Service Provider means an entity that is registered with and examined by
the Securities and Exchange Commission and provides services to an investment
company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
4.  An officer or employee of an entity that has a class of equity securities listed (or
American depository receipts listed) on any United States national securities exchange is
not required to report signature authority over a foreign financial account of such entity.
5.  An officer or employee of a United States subsidiary is not required to report signature
authority over a foreign financial account of the subsidiary if its United States parent has
a class of equity securities listed on any United States national securities exchange and
the subsidiary is included in a consolidated FBAR report of the United States parent.
6.  An officer or employee of an entity that has a class of equity securities registered (or
American depository receipts in respect of equity securities registered) under section
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act is not required to report signature authority over a
foreign financial account of such entity.

=== PAGE 8 ===
8
Trust Beneficiaries.  A trust beneficiary with a financial interest described in section (2)(e) of
the  financial interest definition is not required to report the trust's foreign financial accounts
on an  FBAR if the trust, trustee of the trust, or agent of the trust:  (1)  is a United States person
and  (2)  files an FBAR disclosing the trust's foreign financial accounts.
United States Military Banking Facility.  A financial account maintained with a financial
institution located on a United States military installation is not required to be reported, even if
that military installation is outside of the United States.
Filing Information:
When and Where to File.  The FBAR is an annual report and must be filed on or before April
15th of the year following the calendar year being reported. The FBAR must be filed
electronically through FinCEN ’ s BSA E-Filing System. The application to file electronically is
available at  http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/  . For help in applying, contact the E-Filing Help
Desk by calling 1-866-346-9478 (option 1) or via E-mail sent to  BSAEFilingHelp@fincen.gov.
Note:  The FBAR filing deadline will follow the Federal income tax due date guidance, which
notes that when the Federal income tax due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday,
a return is considered timely filed if filed on the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday.
Extension of Time to File.  FinCEN will grant filers failing to  meet the FBAR annual due date
of April 15 th  an automatic extension to October 15 th  each year.  Accordingly, specific
requests for  an  extension are not required.
Record Keeping Requirements.  Persons required to file an FBAR must retain records that
contain the name in which each account is maintained, the number or other designation of the
account, the name and address of the foreign financial institution that maintains the account, the
type of account, and the maximum account value of each account during the reporting period.
The records must be retained for a period of 5 years from April 15th of the year following  the
calendar year reported, or the date filed if after April 15th, and must be available for inspection
as provided by law. Retaining a copy of the filed FBAR can help to satisfy the record keeping
requirements.
An officer or employee who files an FBAR to report signature authority over an employer's
foreign financial account is not required to personally retain records regarding these accounts.
Recording information:  Complete each FBAR by providing as much information as possible.
Although all items should be completed fully and accurately, items marked with an asterisk (*)
in the instructions must be completed.
NOTE: Throughout these instructions the phrase  “ check box ”  and similar wording is used to
denote checking an appropriate box in certain data items on the electronic discrete FBAR. This
is deemed equivalent to instructions in the Electronic Filing Requirements to enter appropriate
codes in the same data items in transmission files. For example, the requirement to check a
box in Item 2  “ Type of Filer ”  in the discrete FBAR is the equivalent of entering one of the

=== PAGE 9 ===
9
codes A  through E in  “ Type of Filer ”  in the Electronic Filing Requirements Filer Information
(2A) Record.
Amended reports : If you filed your FBAR through the BSA E-Filing website and you need to
amend your FBAR to correct any information, please fill out a new FBAR completely and check
the Amend box in Item 1. You will need to provide your Prior Report BSA Identifier after
selecting the Amend box. Your Prior Report BSA Identifier was provided to you either through
email or via the BSA E-Filing Syste m’s  secure messaging feature. If your Prior Report BSA
Identifier is not known, please enter 00000000000000 in the Prior Report BSA Identifier field.
If your FBAR was filed using batch mode, an amended report must be filed whenever errors are
discovered in a previously-filed FBAR. Please refer to the BSA Electronic Filing Requirements
Attachment B  –  Error Correction Instructions
(http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/docs/FinCENFBARElectronicFilingRequirements.pdf ) for
information regarding filing amended FBARs.
Addresses:  For addresses in the U.S., Canada, or Mexico enter the permanent street address,
city, two or three letter state/territory/province abbreviation or code, ZIP Code or foreign postal
code, and two letter country code. Provide the apartment number or suite number, if known,
following the street address. A non-location address such as a post office box or rural route
number should be used only if no other street address information is available. ZIP Codes must
be five or nine digits. Nine-digit ZIP Codes cannot end with four zeroes or four nines. ZIP
Codes and foreign postal codes must be entered without formatting or special characters such as
spaces or hyphens. For example, the ZIP Code 12354-6120 would be entered as 123546120. The
foreign postal code HKW 702 would be entered HKW702. For other foreign addresses enter the
street address, city, postal code, and two letter country code or address equivalents. Leave the
state item blank. If a foreign address contains address information that does not conform to the
FBAR address format, record equivalent address information in the FBAR address items (except
state). Enter as much of any non-conforming data as will fit in the 100-character street address
field. Complete any address item that is known, even if some address items cannot be
completed because of incompatible formats (e.g. state codes). No abbreviations are permitted in
city  names, which must be completely spelled out. A U.S. city name should match the city
name used by the U.S. Postal Service for the associated state and ZIP Code. For U.S. address use
only the authorized U.S. Postal Service state, territory, or military address abbreviations found
at  https:/ /www.usps.com/ship/official-abbreviations.htm .  For Canadian provinces and
territories use the Canada Post Corporation codes found at
http://www.canadapost.ca/tools/pg/manual/PGaddress-e.asp#1380608 .  For Mexican states and
territories use the ISO 3166-2 three-letter codes found at
http://www.commondatahub.com/live/geography/state_province_region/iso_3166_2_state_co
des . For all countries use the ISO 3166-1 two-letter country codes found at
http://www.iso.org/iso/country_names_and_code_elements . Additional information about ISO
3166 codes can be found on the BSA E-Filing Program website. Note: The ISO 3166-1 country
list includes entries for all U.S. territories. Do not use these U.S. territory entries, which match
the U.S. Postal Service abbreviations required in state fields, in any country field.

=== PAGE 10 ===
10
Telephone numbers:  Record all telephone numbers as a single number string without
formatting or special characters such as parentheses, spaces, or hyphens. For example, a
number in the format (NNN) NNN-NNNN would be recorded as NNNNNNNNNN.
Telephone numbers that are part of the North American Numbering Plan used by the U.S.,
Canada, many Caribbean countries, and present/former U.S. Pacific island protectorates must
consist of an area code and seven-digit telephone number. Telephone numbers that are part of
the North American Numbering Plan should not be preceded with a  “1.”
Identifying numbers:  Enter all identifying numbers as a single text string without formatting
or special characters such as hyphens or periods. An identifying number in the format NNN-
NN- NNNN would be entered as NNNNNNNNN. Such numbers may include letter and
number characters. Common identifying numbers include account numbers, alien registration
numbers, Employer Identification Numbers (EIN), passport numbers, Social Security
Numbers (SSN), and foreign TIN ’ s.
Monetary amounts:  When recording the maximum value of accounts, record all amounts as
U.S. Dollar amounts rounded up to the next whole dollar. The amount $15,265.25 would be
recorded as $15,266. The maximum value of the account can be determined using the following
steps.
NOTE: After determining the value of the account, as described below, if the value results in a
negative (minus) value, enter zero (0) in item 15,  “ Maximum account value .”
Step 1. Determine the maximum value of each account (in the currency of that account) during
the calendar year being reported. The maximum value of an account is a reasonable
approximation of the greatest value of currency or nonmonetary assets in the account during
the calendar year. Periodic account statements may be relied on to determine the maximum
value of the account, provided that the statements fairly reflect the maximum account value
during the calendar year. For Item 15, if the filer had a financial interest in more than one
account, each account must be valued separately.  For an account denominated in U.S. Dollars,
the maximum value of the account is the largest U.S. Dollar value of the account during the
report year.
Step 2. In the case of non-United States currency, convert the maximum account value for each
account into United States dollars. Convert foreign currency by using the Treasury's Financial
Management Service rate (select Exchange Rates under Reference & Guidance at
www.fms.treas.gov ) for the last day of the calendar year. If no Treasury Financial Management
Service rate is available, use another verifiable exchange rate and provide the source of that rate.
In valuing currency of a country that uses multiple exchange rates, use the rate that would
apply if the currency in the account were converted into United States dollars on the last day of
the calendar year.
If the maximum account value of a single account or aggregate of the maximum account
values of multiple accounts exceeds $10,000, an FBAR must be filed. An FBAR is not required

=== PAGE 11 ===
11
to be filed if the person did not have $10,000 of maximum value or aggregate maximum value
in foreign financial accounts at any time during the calendar year.
For United States persons with a financial interest in or signature authority over fewer than 25
accounts that are unable to determine if the aggregate maximum account values of the
accounts exceeded $10,000 at any time during the calendar year, complete the appropriate Part
II, III, IV, or V section for each of these accounts and check the  “am ount unknown ”  box, item
15a.
Prohibited Entries:  The following entries and their variations are prohibited in text fields.
a.  AKA
b.  COMPUTER  GENERATED
c.  DBA
d.  NONE
e.  NOT APPLICABLE
f.  OTHER
g.  SAME
h.  SAME AS ABOVE
i.  SEE ABOVE
j.  SIGNATURE CARD
k.  UNKNOWN
l.  VARIOUS
m.  XX
Name Editing Instructions:  Because many names do not consist of a single first name, middle
name, and last name, care must be taken to ensure these names are entered properly in the
FBAR. This is especially important when there are separate fields for the last name, first name,
and middle name. Some names have multiple surnames (family names) or given names. Others
may not be written in [first name] [middle name] [last name] order. Multiple surnames must be
entered in the last name field. For example, Spanish names may be written in the order of given
name, father's last name, and mother's last name, e.g.,  “ Juan Vega Santiago .”  Thus the surname
“ VEGA SANTIAGO ”  would be entered in the last name field with ”J UAN ”  entered in the first
name field. Some Spanish surnames consist of three names (e.g., father ’ s last name, mother ’ s last
name, and husband ’ s first last name). In that case all three would be entered in a last name
field. In some cultures names consist of multiple first names and a single family name, not
necessarily in (first name) (last name) order. For example, the Korean name  “ Kim, Chun Nam ”
consists of the family name  “ Kim ”  and the first name  “ Chun Nam ”  separated by a comma and
space. There is no middle name. In this case  “ KI M”  would be entered in the last name field and
“ CHUN NA M”  would be entered in the first name field. Nothing is entered in the middle name
field. When an individual name is entered in a single name field it should be entered in [first
name] [middle name] [last name] order regardless of any foreign naming conventions. Thus,
“K im, Chun Na m”  would be entered as  “ CHUN NAM KI M”  in a single field.
Filing by Third Party Preparer:  An FBARs may be completed and filed on behalf of the filer

=== PAGE 12 ===
12
and/or owner of the foreign account(s) by a third party preparer. The filer or owner who is
using a third party preparer should complete and maintain a record of  FinCEN Form 114a ,
FinCEN BSA E-Filing Signature Authorization Record, to authorize the third party filing. Do
not file or send the completed Form 114a to FinCEN. Form 114a must be maintained by the filer
or owner and made available to FinCEN or IRS on request. The third party preparer will
complete FBAR Parts I through V and the Signature section using the following Item
Instructions.
NOTE: Spouses filing a joint FBAR also may use the form 114a to approve/designate
which spouse will sign the report. ( http://www.fincen.gov/forms/files/FBARE-
FileAuth114aRecordSP.pdf )
Item Instructions:
Filers must use the BSA E-Filing website ( http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/ ) to file an FBAR.
Individuals do not have to register to file an FBAR. Institutions are required to register for a
UserID and password prior to submitting an FBAR. For more information on this
requirement, reference the FAQs posted at
http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/docs/FBAR_EFILING_FAQ.pdf . Once a new FBAR is
opened via the BSA E-Filing System a header/cover page will display the FBAR version
number, OMB control number, and several other items of information.
1.  Filing Name: The filer will enter a unique name for the report being filed. Filers will
use this name to track the status of the report in the BSA E-Filing system. Select a name
such as  “ Joh n’ s 2013 FBAR ”  or  “ entity name 2013 FBAR ”  etc. This is a filer determined
name.
2.  Select the appropriate check box for submission type; New report or Amendment
3.  If an authorized third party is filing this report, check the box provided and
complete the third party section on the first page of the report.
4.  If this report is being late filed ( i.e.,  filed after October 15th of the year following the
reporting year) make selection from the drop-down list to indicate the reason. If one
of the provided selections does not explain the reason, select  “ other ”  and provide a
written explanation in the text box provided.
NOTE: If you are filing this report late because an earlier FinCEN filing waiver applied
to you, check box  “z”  other and identify the waiver by number ( e.g.,  FinCEN notice
2011-1 etc.) in the text field provided.
Scroll down to or select page one of the report (page following the header/cover page)
1.  *Calendar year  –  This report is for calendar year ended 12/31
(Check if)  Amended
Item 1.  Enter the calendar year being reported as a numeric 4-position entry in the format:
YYYY, e.g. 2012. If the FBAR amends a prior report, select "Amendment" from the Submission
Type drop-down menu on the FBAR Header page. You will need to provide your Prior
Report BSA Identifier after selecting the Amend box. Your Prior Report BSA Identifier was
provided to you either through email or via the BSA E-Filing System ’ s secure messaging

=== PAGE 13 ===
13
feature. If your Prior Report BSA Identifier is not known, please enter 00000000000000 in the
Prior Report BSA Identifier field.
Part I  —  Filer information
2.  *Type of filer
a.  (Check if)  Individual
b.  (Check if)  Partnership
c.  (Check if)  Corporation
d.  ( Check if ) Consolidation
e.  (Check if)  Fiduciary or other  (* and specify type in space provided)
Item 2.  Check the box that describes the filer. Individuals, including those reporting only
signature authority, should check box  “a”.  If filing a consolidated FBAR, check box  “ d ” . To
determine if a consolidated FBAR can be filed, see the instructions for Part V. A corporation
which owns directly or indirectly more than a 50 percent interest in one or more other entities
required to file this report will be permitted to file a consolidated report. If the type of filer is
not covered by options  “a”  through  “d,”  check box  “ e ”  and record the type of filer in the
associated text field. Consolidated reports should be signed by an authorized official of the
parent entity. Persons that should check box  “ e ”  include, but are not limited to, trusts, estates,
limited liability companies, and tax-exempt entities (even if the entity is organized as a
corporation). A disregarded entity must check box  “ e ”  and enter the type of entity followed by
“ (D.E.) ” . For example, a limited liability company that is disregarded for United States federal
tax purposes would enter  “ limited liability company (D.E.) ” .
3.  *U.S. Taxpayer Identification Number
If filer has no U.S. Identification Number complete Item 4.
Item 3.  Provide the filer's U.S. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). Generally, this is the
filer's Social Security Number (SSN), Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN), or
Employer Identification Number (EIN). If the filer does NOT have a U.S. TIN, complete Item 4.
3a TIN type. Select the appropriate entry to indicate the type of number entered in item 3.
4.  Foreign identification  (*Complete only if item 3 is not applicable)
a.  Select  Passport or
Foreign TIN or  Other
If Other is selected enter a description
b.  Number
c.  Country of issue (Two letter designation from the dropdown Country code lists)
Item 4.  Complete Item 4 only if the filer does NOT have a United States Taxpayer Identification
Number. Item 4 requires the filer to provide information from an official foreign government
document to verify the filer's nationality or residence. Check the appropriate type of document,
either Passport, Foreign TIN, or Other. If  “ Other ”  is checked provide the type of document in

=== PAGE 14 ===
14
the associated text field. Enter the document number followed by the country of issuance.
5.  Individual ’ s date of birth
Item 5.  Enter the filer ’ s date of birth in the format MM/DD/YYYY where MM is the month, DD
is the day, and YYYY is the year. Zero (0) should precede any single digit number. For example,
if the filer's date of birth is June 1, 1948, enter 06/01/1948 in Item 5.
6-8. Filer name
6.  Last name or organization name
7.  First name
8.  Middle
initial 8a.
Suffix
Items 6-8a . Enter the name of the filer. If the filer is an organization, enter the name in Item 6
and leave Items 7, 8 and 8a blank. If the filer is an individual, enter the filer's last name in Item
6, first name in Item 7, middle initial in Item 8, and any name suffix in 8a. If there is no middle
initial, leave Item 8 blank. If there is no name suffix leave Item 8a blank. See the Name Editing
Instructions in the General Instructions section above for additional information on entering
names in fields.
9-13. Filer address
9.  Mailing address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.)
10.  City
11.  State
12.  ZIP/Postal Code
13.  Country
Items 9-13.  Enter the filer's address. An individual residing in the United States must enter the
street address of the individual's United States residence not a post office box. An individual
residing outside the United States must enter the individual's United States mailing address. If
the individual does not have a United States mailing address, the individual must enter a
foreign residence address. An entity must enter its United States mailing address. If the entity
does not have a United States mailing address, the entity must enter its foreign mailing address.
See the Address instructions in the General Instruction section above for additional information
on entering address data in fields.
14.  a) Does the filer have a financial interest in 25 or more financial accounts?
(Check if)  Yes (* Enter total number of accounts in space provided)  Do not complete Part II or Part
III, but maintain records of the information.
(Check if)  No

=== PAGE 15 ===
15
b) Does the filer have signature authority over but no financial interest in 25 or more financial
accounts?
(Check if)  Yes (* Enter total number of accounts in space provided)  Complete Part IV, items 34
through 43 for each person on whose behalf the filer has signature authority.
(Check if)  No
Item 14.  If the filer has a financial interest in over 25 or more foreign financial accounts check
the yes box, and enter the total number of accounts in 14a. Leave blank Part II (Continuation
of Separate Accounts) or Part III (Joint Accounts) of this report, but maintain records of the
information. If filing a consolidated FBAR, the United States person should not complete Part
II or Part III but should complete Part V, Items 34-42, for each United States entity included in
the consolidated FBAR.
If the filer has signature authority only (no financial interest), over 25 or more foreign financial
accounts check the yes box, and enter the total number of accounts in 14b. Complete only items
34-43 of Part IV for each person on whose behalf the filer has signature authority. If the group of
entities covered by a consolidated report has a financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial
accounts, the reporting parent corporation need only complete Part V (for consolidated
reporting) Items 34 through 42, for the identity information of the account owners, but need not
complete the account information. Detailed information about each account, including all
information called for on this report, must be recorded and retained for five years from April
15th of the year following the calendar year reported, or the date filed if after April 15th. Any
person who reports 25 or more foreign financial accounts in item 14a or item 14b, must provide
all the information omitted from Parts II, III, IV or V, as appropriate, if the information is
requested by FinCEN or the IRS. Filers must comply with applicable recording keeping
requirements. See Record Keeping Requirements under Filing Information in the General
Instructions above.
Part II  —  Information on financial account(s) owned separately
Part II records information on accounts owned separately by the filer. It should not be used to
record information on jointly-owned accounts (Part III), signature authority but no financial
interest accounts (Part IV), or accounts involved in a consolidated report (Part V).
15.  Maximum value of account during calendar year.
Item 15.  Enter the maximum value of the account in U.S. Dollars during the calendar year being
reported. See the General Instructions on Monetary Amounts for guidance on determining the
maximum value of an account. Use the end of the year conversion rate.
15a. Amount unknown. Check this box if the value of the account cannot be determined.
16.  Type of account

=== PAGE 16 ===
16
From the dropdown list select  Bank, Securities, or Other. If other is selected  specify type in
space provided.
Item 16.  Check the appropriate box to describe the type of account. If "Other" is checked, enter a
brief description of the account in the associated text field.
17.  Name of financial institution in which account is held
Item 17.  Provide the full name of the financial institution in which account is held.
18.  Account number or other designation
Item 18.  Provide the account number used by the financial institution to designate the account.
19-23. Financial institution address
19.  Mailing address (number, street, suite number) of financial institution in which
account is held
20.  City
21.  State, if known
22.  Foreign Postal Code, if known
23.  Country
Items 19-23.  Provide the complete mailing address of the financial institution where the account
is held. See the General Instruction on Addresses for further information on entering address
data.
Part III  —  Information on financial account(s) owned jointly
Note: If jointly filing with a spouse, both parties should complete and sign Form 114a.
Completing the Form 114a with both spouses signing the form completes the necessary
requirement that will permit one spouse to electronically sign (PIN) a single report for both
parties instead of filing two FBARs. The Form 114a is available on the FinCEN (under the
forms tab) and BSA E-File websites. Keep this form for your records, do not send to FinCEN.
Enter information in the applicable parts of the report only. If there is not enough space to
provide all account information, click the  “+”  sign on the electronic report to add additional
Part III ’ s and complete additional pages of the required Part as necessary.
15-23. Account information

=== PAGE 17 ===
17
Items 15-23.  Enter the information about the account and the financial institution in which the
account is held. See Part II for instructions on Items 15-23. Each joint owner must report the
entire value of the account as determined under Item 15.
24.  Number of joint owners for this account
Item 24.  Enter the number of joint owners for the account. If the exact number is not known,
provide an estimate. Do not count the filer when determining the number of joint owners.
25-33. Joint owner information
Items 25-33.  Use the identifying information of the principal joint owner (excluding the filer) to
complete Items 25-33. Leave blank items for which no information is available. If the filer's
spouse has an interest in a jointly owned account, the filer's spouse is the principal joint owner.
Enter on line 26 the last name of the joint spousal owner. See Exceptions, Certain Accounts
Jointly Owned by Spouses, to determine if the filer's spouse is required to independently report
the jointly owned accounts.
25.  Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of principle joint owner, if known.
Item 25.  Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of Principle Joint Owner. Enter the TIN of the
principle joint owner on the account; this can be either an SSN (individual) or EIN (entity) or
foreign. Numbers should be entered as a single number string without formatting or special
characters such as parentheses, spaces, or hyphens.
25a. TIN type. Select the appropriate entry to indicate the type on number entered in item 25.
26-28 Joint owner name
26.  Last name or organization name of principle joint owner
27.  First name of principle joint owner, if known
28.  Middle initial, if known
28a. Suffix
Items 26-28a.  Enter the name of the organization/individual of the principle joint owner. If the
principle joint owner is an individual, enter the individual ’ s last name in Item 26, first name in
Item 27, middle initial in Item 28 and name suffix in 28a. If there is no middle initial, leave Item
28 blank. If there is no suffix leave item 28a blank.
29-33. Principle joint owner mailing address
29.  Mailing address (number, street, suite number) of principal joint owner, if known
30.  City, if known

=== PAGE 18 ===
18
31.  State, if known
32.  ZIP/Postal Code, if known
33.  Country
Items 29-33.  Enter the address of the principal joint owner. If the principal joint owner resides
in the United States, enter the street address of the joint owner ’ s United States residence, not a
post office box. If the principal joint owner resides outside the United States, enter the joint
owne r’ s United States mailing address. If the principal joint owner has no U.S. mailing address
the filer may provide a foreign address. Enter an organization joint owner ’ s United States
mailing address. See the Addresses instructions in the General Instruction section above for
additional information on entering address data in fields.
Part IV  —  Information on financial account(s) where filer has signature authority but no
financial interest in the account(s)
Part IV records information on foreign financial accounts where a filer with signature authority
over the accounts but has no financial interest in the accounts. Filers with signature authority
over 25 or more foreign financial accounts must complete only Items 34-43 for each person on
whose behalf the filer has signature authority. In addition, United States person who (1) resides
outside of the United States, (2) is an officer or employee of an employer who is physically
located outside of the United States, and (3) has signature authority over a foreign financial
account that is owned or maintained by the individual's employer should only complete Part I
and Items 34-43 of Part IV. Part IV should only be completed one time with information about
the individual's employer. If additional Part IV ’ s are required, click on the  “+”  sign on the
electronic report to add copies.
15-23. Account information
Items 15-23.  Enter the information about the account and the financial institution in which the
account is held. See Part II for instructions on Items 15-23. Each joint owner must report the
entire value of the account as determined under Item 15.
Items 34-42.  Provide the name, address, and identifying number of the owner of the foreign
financial account for which the individual filer has signature authority over but no financial
interest in the account. If there is more than one owner of the account for which the individual
has signature authority, provide the information in Items 34-42 for the principal joint owner
(excluding the filer).
34, 36, 37. Account owner name
34.  Last name or organization name of account owner
36.  First name
37.  Middle initial
37a. Suffix

=== PAGE 19 ===
19
Items 34, 36, 37 . Enter the name of the account owner. If the owner is an entity, enter the name
in Item 34 and leave Items 36 and 37 blank. If the owner is an individual, enter the owner's last
name in Item 34, first name in Item 36, middle initial in Item 37 and any name suffix in item 37a.
If there is no middle initial, leave Item 37 blank. If there is not name suffix, leave item 37a blank.
See the Name Editing Instructions in the General Instructions section above for additional
information on entering names in fields.
35.  Tax identification number of account owner
Item 35.  Enter the Taxpayer Identification Number of the account owner. Numbers should be
entered as a single number string without formatting or special characters such as parentheses,
spaces, or hyphens.
Item 35a. TIN type. Select the appropriate entry to indicate the type on number entered in item
35.
38-42. Account owner mailing address
38.  Mailing address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.)
39.  City
40.  State
41.  ZIP/Postal Code
42.  Country
Items 38- 42.  Enter the address of the account owner. If the individual account owner resides
in the United States, enter the street address of the individual account owner ’ s United States
residence, not a post office box. If the individual account owner resides outside the United
States, enter the individual account owner ’ s United States mailing address. If the account
owner has no U.S. mailing address the filer may provide a foreign address. Enter an
organization account owner ’ s United States mailing address. See the Addresses instructions in
the General Instruction section above for additional information on entering address data in
fields.
43. Filer ’ s title with this owner
Item 43.  Enter filer ’ s title for the position which gives him signature authority over the owner ’ s
account.
Part V  —  Information on financial account(s) where filer is filing a consolidated report
An entity that is a United States person that owns directly or indirectly a greater than 50 percent
interest in another entity that is required to file an FBAR is permitted to file a consolidated

=== PAGE 20 ===
20
FBAR on behalf of itself and such other entity. Check box  “2 d ”  in Part I and complete Part V. If
filing a consolidated FBAR and reporting 25 or more foreign financial accounts, complete only
Part V Items 34-42 for each entity included in the consolidated FBAR. If additional Part V ’ s are
required, click on the  “ + ”  sign on the electronic report to add copies.
15-23. Account Information
Items 15-23.  Enter the information about the account and the financial institution in which the
account is held. See Part II for instructions on Items 15-23.
34.  Organization name of account owner
Item 34.  Organization name of account owner. Enter the entities name of the account owner
as shown on the books of the financial institution.
35.  Tax Identification Number of Account Owner
Item 35.  Taxpayer identification number (TIN) of account owner. Numbers should be entered
with no spaces, dashes, or other punctuation.
Item 35a. TIN type. Check the appropriate box to indicate the type on number entered in item
35.
38-42. Account owner mailing address
Items 38-42.  Enter the account owner ’ s mailing address. See Part III for instructions on Items
38-42.
Signature
44.  Filer Signature
Item 44.  A discrete or batch-filed FBAR is considered signed by the filer when electronically
signed on the header/cover page of the discrete FBAR or completion of the 2A record in the
batch file.
44a. Check here if this report is completed by a third party preparer.
Item 44a. Check this box if the FBAR has been completed by a third party preparer. Complete
in the Third Party Preparer Use Only section all of Items 47 through 59 that apply.
45.  Filer Title, if not reporting a personal account. If filing for a child enter  “ Parent/Guardian
filing for  child.”
Item 45.  Enter the filer ’ s title when the individual that is filing the FBAR has signature
authority over the account(s) or is authorized to file on behalf of a legal entity, such as a
corporation, which is shown as the filer. Leave Item 45 blank if the filer is reporting as an

=== PAGE 21 ===
21
individual because of a personal financial interest in the account(s). An individual filing
because of a financial  interest in his individual accounts is filing as an individual.
46.  Date (MM/DD/YYYY)
Item 46.  This item will auto-populate with the current date when a discrete FBAR is signed on
the header/cover page. In a batch-filed FBAR this date is the date recorded in Date of Signature
(Item 46) in the Filer Information (2A) Record.
Note: When the FBAR is completed, return to the header/cover page to validate the report, save
a copy of the report, print a copy for your records. Then sign and submit the report.
Third party preparer information
Note: Completion of this section is not required for spouses filing jointly.
47-49. Third party preparer name
47.  Preparer ’ s last name
48.  First name
49.  MI
Items 47 . Enter the name of the preparation firm employee or of the self-employed preparer
that prepared the FBAR. If the preparer has no middle initial, leave that field blank. See the
Name Editing Instructions under General Instructions for additional information on entering
names.
50.  Check if self-employed
Item 50.  Check this box if the third party preparer is a self-employed individual. Leave Items 53
“Fi rm ’ s name ”  and 54  “ Firm ’ s EIN ”  blank.
51.  TIN
Item 51.  Enter the personal TIN of the preparation firm ’ s employee or the self-employed
preparer. This should be the Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN) issued to the preparer
by the IRS. If the preparer has no PTIN, enter the preparer ’ s Social Security Number (SSN) or
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN). The TIN should be entered as a single
number string without formatting or special characters such as parentheses, spaces, or
hyphens.
Item 51a. TIN type. Select the appropriate entry to indicate the type of number entered in item
51.
52.  Contact phone no.
52a. Ext.

=== PAGE 22 ===
22
Item 52-52a.  Enter the paid preparer ’ s contact telephone number in Item 53 and the telephone
extension number, if any, in Item 52a. Enter all numbers with no formatting such as spaces,
dashes, or other punctuation.
53.  Firm ’ s name
Item 53.  Enter the name of the preparing firm. Leave Item 53 blank if the self-employment box
in Item 50 was checked.
54.  Firm ’ s TIN
Item 54.  Enter the preparing fir m’s  TIN. Leave Item 54 blank if the self-employment box in
Item 50 was checked.
Item 54a. TIN type. Select the appropriate entry to indicate the type of number entered in item
54.
55-59. Preparer ’ s address
55.  Mailing address (number, street, apt. or suite no.)
56.  City
57.  State
58.  ZIP/Postal Code
59.  Country
Items 55-59.  Enter the preparing firm ’ s or self-employed preparer ’ s address. Follow the
Addresses instructions in the General Instructions for additional information on entering
addresses in these items.
Penalties
A person who is required to file an FBAR and fails to properly file may be subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed $10,000 per violation. If there is reasonable cause for the failure and the
balance in the account is properly reported, no penalty will be imposed. A person who willfully
fails to report an account or account identifying information may be subject to a civil monetary
penalty equal to the greater of $100,000 or 50 percent of the balance in the account at the time of
the violation. See 31 U.S.C. section 5321(a)(5). Willful violations may also be subject to criminal
penalties under 31 U.S.C. section 5322(a), 31 U.S.C. section 5322(b), or 18 U.S.C. section 1001.