

=== PAGE 1 ===
Instructions for Form 1040 (2024) Catalog Number 24811V
Dec 16, 2024  Department of the Treasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov
Future Developments
2024 Changes
R
INSTRUCTIONS
See  What’s New  in these instructions.
See  IRS.gov  and  IRS.gov/Forms , and for the latest information about developments related to Forms 1040 and
1040-SR and their instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were published, go to  IRS.gov/Form1040 .
Free File is the fast, safe, and free way to prepare and  e-file  your taxes. See  IRS.gov/FreeFile .
Direct File is a permanent option to file individual federal tax returns online—for free—directly and
securely with the IRS starting in 2025. See  DirectFile.IRS.gov .
Pay Online.  It’s fast, simple, and secure. Go to  IRS.gov/Payments .
Including the instructions for
Schedules 1 through 3
2024
TAX YEAR  
R
1040  
(and
1040-SR)

=== PAGE 2 ===
Table of Contents
Contents  Page  Contents  Page
What's New  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Filing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Do You Have To File?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
When and Where Should You File?  . . . . .  8
Line Instructions for Forms 1040 and
1040-SR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Name and Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Social Security Number (SSN)  . . . . . . .  12
Filing Status  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Dependents, Qualifying Child for
Child Tax Credit, and Credit for
Other Dependents  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Total Income and Adjusted Gross
Income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Tax and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Payments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Refund  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  57
Amount You Owe  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
Sign Your Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
Assemble Your Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
2024 Tax Table  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
General Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  77
How To Get Tax Help  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  79
Refund Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  83
Instructions for Schedule 1  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  84
Instructions for Schedule 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  96
Instructions for Schedule 3  . . . . . . . . . . . .  101
Tax Topics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  104
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork
Reduction Act Notice  . . . . . . . . . . . .  106
Major Categories of Federal Income and
Outlays for Fiscal Year 2023  . . . . . . . .  108
Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  110
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
Have additional income, such as business or farm income or
loss, unemployment compensation, or prize or award money.
Have any adjustments to income, such as student loan
interest, self-employment tax, or educator expenses.
Can claim a refundable credit (other than the earned income
credit, American opportunity credit, or additional child tax credit),
such as the net premium tax credit.
Have other payments, such as an amount paid with a request for
an extension to file or excess social security tax withheld.
Owe alternative minimum tax (AMT) or need to make an
excess advance premium tax credit repayment.
Can claim a nonrefundable credit (other than the child tax credit
or the credit for other dependents), such as the foreign tax credit,
education credits, or general business credit.
Owe other taxes, such as self-employment tax, household
employment taxes, additional tax on IRAs or other qualified
retirement plans and tax-favored accounts.
Schedule 1, Part I
Schedule 1, Part II
Schedule 2, Part I
Schedule 3, Part I
Schedule 2, Part II
Schedule 3, Part II
IF YOU...  THEN USE...
For 2024, you will use Form 1040 or, if you were born before January 2, 1960, you have the option to use
Form 1040-SR.
You may only need to file Form 1040 or 1040-SR and none of the numbered schedules, Schedules 1 through
3. However, if your return is more complicated (for example, you claim certain deductions or credits or owe
additional taxes), you will need to complete one or more of the numbered schedules. Below is a general guide
to which schedule(s) you will need to file based on your circumstances. See the instructions for the schedules
for more information.
If you  e-file  your return, the software you use will generally determine which schedules you need.
Form 1040 and 1040-SR
Helpful Hints
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Here To Help You
What is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an  independent  organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that helps
taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. TAS strives to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and
understand your rights under the  Taxpayer Bill of Rights .
What can TAS do for you?
TAS can help you if your tax problem is causing a financial difficulty, you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the
IRS, or you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should. And the service is free. If you qualify
for TAS assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate who will work with you throughout the process and will do everything
possible to resolve your issue. TAS can help you if:
•  Your problem is causing a financial difficulty for you, your family, or your business.
•  You face (or your business is facing) an immediate threat of adverse action.
•  You’ve tried to contact the IRS but no one has responded, or the IRS hasn’t responded by the date promised.
How can you reach TAS?
TAS has offices in  every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico . To find your advocate’s number:
•  Go to  TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/contact-us ;
•  Download Publication 1546, Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Your Voice at the IRS. If you do not have Internet access, you
can call the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676) and ask for a copy of Publication 1546;
•  Check your local directory; or
•  Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
How can you learn about your taxpayer rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. The TAS website
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov  can help you understand what these rights mean to you and how they apply. These are  your  rights.
Know them. Use them.
How else does TAS help taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of these broad issues, please report it
to TAS at  IRS.gov/SAMS . Be sure not to include any personal taxpayer information.
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics Help Taxpayers
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) are independent from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS). LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and who need to resolve tax problems with
the IRS. LITCs can represent taxpayers in audits, appeals, and tax collection disputes before the IRS and in court. In addition,
LITCs can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak
English as a second language. Services are offered for free or a small fee. For more information or to find an LITC near you, see
the LITC page at  TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/LITCMap  or IRS  Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List . This
publication is available online at  IRS.gov/Forms-Pubs  or by calling the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676).
Suggestions for Improving the IRS
Taxpayer Advocacy Panel
Taxpayers have an opportunity to provide direct feedback to the IRS through the Taxpayer Advocacy Panel (TAP). The TAP is a
Federal Advisory Committee comprised of an independent panel of citizen volunteers who listen to taxpayers, identify taxpayers'
systemic issues, and make suggestions for improving IRS customer service. Contact TAP at  ImproveIRS.org .
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
Affordable Care Act  —  What You Need To Know
Requirement To Reconcile Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay premiums for health insurance purchased from the Health Insurance Marketplace
(the Marketplace). Eligible individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax credit made on their behalf
directly to the insurance company.
If you or a family member enrolled in health insurance through the Marketplace and advance payments of the
premium tax credit were made to your insurance company to reduce your monthly premium payment, you must attach
Form 8962  to your return to  reconcile  (compare) the advance payments with your premium tax credit for the year.
The Marketplace is required to send  Form 1095-A  by  January 31 ,  2025 , listing the advance payments and other
information you need to complete  Form 8962 .
1. You will need  Form 1095-A  from the Marketplace.
2. Complete  Form 8962  to claim the credit and to reconcile your advance credit payments.
3.  Include  Form 8962  with your  Form 1040 ,  1040-SR ,  or  1040-NR . (Don’t include Form 1095-A.)
Health Coverage Reporting
If you or someone in your family was an employee in 2024, the employer may be required to send you  Form
1095-C .  Part II  of  Form 1095-C  shows whether your employer offered you health insurance coverage and, if
so, information about the offer. You should receive  Form 1095-C  by early  March 2025 .  This information may be
relevant if you purchased health insurance coverage for 2024 through the Marketplace and wish to claim the
premium tax credit on  Schedule 3 ,  line 9 . However, you don’t need to wait to receive this form to file your return.
You may rely on other information received from your employer. If you don’t wish to claim the premium tax credit
for 2024, you don’t need the information in  Part II  of  Form 1095-C . For more information on who is eligible for the
premium tax credit, see the Instructions for Form 8962.
Reminder: Health care coverage.  If you need health care coverage, go to  www.HealthCare.gov  to learn about
health insurance options for you and your family, how to buy health insurance, and how you might qualify to get
financial assistance to buy health insurance.
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
What's New  
For information about any additional changes to the 2024 tax law or any other devel-
opments  affecting  Form  1040  or  1040-SR  or  the  instructions,  go  to  IRS.gov/
Form1040 .
Standard  deduction  amount  in-
creased.  For 2024, the standard deduc-
tion amount has been increased for all
filers. The amounts are:
•  $14,600–Single or Married filing
separately.
•  $29,200–Married filing jointly or
Qualifying surviving spouse.
•  $21,900–Head of household.
Choosing to treat a nonresident alien
or dual-status alien spouse as U.S. res-
ident.  If you and your spouse choose to
treat a nonresident alien or dual-status
alien spouse as a U.S. resident for 2024,
or if a prior year's choice to treat a non-
resident alien spouse as a U.S. resident
remains in effect for 2024, check the
box in the  Filing Status  section and en-
ter the name of the nonresident alien or
dual-status  alien  spouse  in  the  entry
space. See  Nonresident aliens and du-
al-status aliens , later.
Updated reporting requirements for
Form 1099-K.  For 2024, payment card
companies,  payment  apps,  and  online
marketplaces will be required to send
you a Form 1099-K when the amount of
your  business  transactions  during  the
year is more than $5,000. In calendar
year 2025, the threshold will lower to
more than $2,500 and for 2026 and later
years, the threshold will be more than
$600.
Changes to reporting amounts from
Form 1099-K.  Beginning in 2024, if
you  received  a  Form(s)  1099-K  that
shows payments that were included in
error or for personal items sold at a loss,
you will now enter these amounts in the
entry space at the top of Schedule 1. See
Form(s) 1099-K , in the Schedule 1 in-
structions.
Digital assets received as ordinary in-
come.  If you received digital assets as
ordinary income, and that income is not
reported elsewhere on your return, you
will enter those amounts on Schedule 1,
line 8v. See the instructions for Schedule
1, line 8v.
Exception to the 10% additional tax
for  early  distributions.  Beginning  in
2024, the exception to the 10% addition-
al tax for early distributions includes
distributions from a retirement plan to
pay for certain emergency personal ex-
penses and to victims of domestic vio-
lence. See Form 5329, Pub. 575, and
Pub. 590-B.
Certain relief payments made to indi-
viduals affected by the East Palestine
train derailment are not taxable.  If
you received relief payments due to be-
ing affected by the East Palestine, Ohio,
train derailment, these payments may be
nontaxable. See  IRS.gov/DisasterRelief
and Pub. 547.
Qualified wildfire relief payments are
not taxable.  If you received a qualified
wildfire relief payment, these payments
may  be  nontaxable.  See  IRS.gov/
DisasterRelief  and Pub. 547.
Surviving spouse election to be treated
as employee.  Beginning in 2024, a sur-
viving  spouse  who  is  the  designated
beneficiary of an employee covered by a
qualified retirement plan (or other plan
to which the required minimum distribu-
tion rules apply) or who is the designa-
ted beneficiary of an IRA owner, may
elect to be treated as the employee for
purposes of the required minimum dis-
tribution rules. See Pub. 575 and Pub.
590-B.
2024 is the last year to file Form 5405.
The 15-year repayment period for the
first-time homebuyer credit for homes
purchased in 2008 began with your 2010
tax return and ends with your 2024 tax
return.
Nontaxable  Medicaid  waiver  pay-
ments reported on Form(s) W-2.  If
you received nontaxable Medicaid waiv-
er payments, those amounts should now
be reported to you on Form(s) W-2 in
box 12, Code II.
Reporting  excessive  payments,  in-
crease in tax, and recapture amounts
related to certain investment credits.
If you reported an excessive payment,
an  increase  in  tax,  and/or  recapture
amount  related  to  certain  credits  on
Form 4255, you will also need to report
those amounts on Schedule 2. See the
instructions for Form 4255 and Schedule
2, lines 1d, 1e, 1f, 1y, 17a, 17z, and 19.
Repayment amount from Form 8936.
If you have a repayment of the credit for
new or previously owned clean vehicles
reported on Form 8936 and Schedule A
(Form 8936), those amounts will now be
reported on Schedule 2, lines 1b and 1c.
Purchase of savings bonds discontin-
ued.  The program allowing for your re-
fund to be deposited into your Treasury-
Direct® account to buy savings bonds,
as well as the ability to buy paper bonds
with your refund, has been discontinued.
Form 8888 is now only used to split
your direct deposit refund between two
or more accounts or to split your refund
between a direct deposit and a paper
check.  Go  to  TreasuryDirect.gov/
Research-Center/FAQ-IRS-Tax-Feature .
U.S. tax allocable to the U.S. Virgin
Islands now reported on Schedule 3,
line 13z.  If you use Form 8689 to figure
your amount of U.S. tax allocable to the
U.S. Virgin Islands, you will now report
this amount on Schedule 3, line 13z. See
the instructions for Schedule 3, line 13z.
Reporting a transfer of a credit for a
new or previously owned clean vehicle
credit to a dealer at the time of sale.  If
you purchased a new or used clean vehi-
cle from a registered dealer and reduced
the amount you paid at the time of sale
by transferring the credit to the dealer,
you must file a tax return and attach
Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936)
to report the transfer of the credit and
reconcile your eligibility on your return.
Direct File.  Direct File is a permanent
option for taxpayers to file federal tax
returns online–for free–directly and se-
curely with the IRS starting in 2025. See
DirectFile.IRS.gov . Direct File is a filing
option  for  taxpayers  in  participating
states who have relatively simple tax re-
turns reporting only certain types of in-
come and claiming certain credits and
deductions. See  IRS.gov/DirectFile  for
information about additional states that
have joined, and the new tax situations
Direct File added to the service for the
2024 tax year.
6

=== PAGE 7 ===
Direct File
Direct File is an option for eligible taxpayers to file  their federal tax returns online, securely
with the IRS.
Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile to see if you qualify and for more information.
Free File
If you meet the adjusted gross income requirement, you may be able to use free tax
preparation software to prepare and  e-file  your tax return.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify and for more information, including a list of
Free File trusted partners.
Free Fillable Forms
Available for any income level, Free Fillable Forms allows people who are experienced in
preparing their own tax returns to prepare and  e-file  their federal tax return.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile for more information, including what you need to use Free Fillable Forms.
VITA  and  TCE
The VITA (Volunteer Income Tax Assistance) and TCE (Tax Counseling for the Elderly)
programs offer free basic tax return preparation for certain individuals.
Go to IRS.gov/VITA to see if you qualify and to find a VITA/TCE site near you.
Go to  IRS.gov/Payments
to see all your online payment options.
FREE WAYS
To File Your Taxes
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Filing
Requirements
These rules apply to all U.S. citizens, regardless of where they live, and resident ali-
ens.
Have you tried IRS  e-file ? It's the fastest way to get your refund
and it's free if you are eligible. Visit IRS.gov for details.
Do You Have To File?
Use Chart A, B, or C to see if you must
file a return. U.S. citizens who lived in
or  had  income  from  a  U.S.  territory
should see Pub. 570. Residents of Puerto
Rico can use  Tax Topic 901  to see if they
must file.
Even if you do not otherwise
have to file a return, you should
file one to get a refund of any
federal income tax withheld. You should
also file if you are eligible for any of the
following credits.
•  Earned income credit.
•  Additional child tax credit.
•  American opportunity credit.
•  Premium tax credit.
See Pub. 501 for details. Also see
Pub. 501 if you do not have to file but
received a Form 1099-B (or substitute
statement) .
Requirement  to  reconcile  advance
payments of the premium tax credit.
If you, your spouse with whom you are
filing a joint return, or a dependent was
enrolled in coverage through the Mar-
ketplace for 2024 and advance payments
of the premium tax credit were made for
this coverage, you must file a 2024 re-
turn  and  attach  Form  8962.  You  (or
whoever enrolled you) should have re-
ceived Form 1095-A from the Market-
place with information about your cov-
erage and any advance payments.
You must attach Form 8962 even if
someone else enrolled you, your spouse,
or your dependent. If you are a depend-
ent who is claimed on someone else's
2024 return, you do not have to attach
Form 8962.
Exception for certain children under
age 19 or full-time students.  If certain
conditions apply, you can elect to in-
clude on your return the income of a
child who was under age 19 at the end
of 2024 or was a full-time student under
age 24 at the end of 2024. To do so, use
Form 8814. If you make this election,
TIP
your child doesn't have to file a return.
For details, use  Tax Topic 553  or see
Form 8814.
A child born on January 1, 2001, is
considered to be age 24 at the end of
2024. Do not use Form 8814 for such a
child.
Resident aliens.  These rules also apply
if you were a resident alien. Also, you
may qualify for certain tax treaty bene-
fits. Generally, you are a resident alien if
you meet either the green card test or the
substantial presence test for 2024. See
Pub. 519 for details.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status ali-
ens.  These rules also apply if you were
a nonresident alien or a dual-status alien
and both of the following apply.
•  You were married to a U.S. citizen
or resident alien at the end of 2024.
•  You elected to be taxed as a resi-
dent alien.
For more information, see  Nonresident
aliens and dual-status aliens , later, and
Pub. 519.
Specific rules apply to deter-
mine if you are a resident alien,
nonresident alien, or dual-sta-
tus alien. Most nonresident aliens and
dual-status aliens have different filing
requirements and may have to file Form
1040-NR. Pub. 519 discusses these re-
quirements  and  other  information  to
help aliens comply with U.S. tax law.
When and Where
Should You File?
File Form 1040 or 1040-SR by  April 15,
2025 . If you file after this date, you may
have to pay interest and penalties. See
Interest and Penalties , later.
If you were serving in, or in support
of, the U.S. Armed Forces in a designa-
ted combat zone or contingency opera-
tion, you may be able to file later. See
Pub. 3 for details.
CAUTION
!
If you  e-file  your return, there is no
need to mail it. However, if you choose
to mail it instead, filing instructions and
addresses are at the end of these instruc-
tions.
The chart at the end of these in-
structions provides the current
address for mailing your return.
Use these addresses for Forms 1040 or
1040-SR filed in 2025. The address for
returns filed after 2025 may be different.
See  IRS.gov/Form1040  for any updates.
What if You Can't File on
Time?
You can get an automatic 6-month ex-
tension if, no later than the date your re-
turn is due, you file Form 4868. If you
want to apply for an extension electroni-
cally, see Form 4868 for details.
An  automatic  6-month  exten-
sion to file doesn't extend the
time to pay your tax. If you
don’t pay your tax by the original due
date of your return, you will owe interest
on the unpaid tax and may owe penal-
ties. See Form 4868.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident
alien, you may qualify for an automatic
extension of time to file without filing
Form 4868. You qualify if, on the due
date of your return, you meet one of the
following conditions.
•  You live outside the United States
and Puerto Rico and your main place of
business or post of duty is outside the
United States and Puerto Rico.
•  You are in military or naval service
on duty outside the United States and
Puerto Rico.
This extension gives you an extra 2
months to file and pay the tax, but inter-
est will be charged from the original due
date of the return on any unpaid tax. You
must include a statement showing that
you meet the requirements. If you are
still unable to file your return by the end
of the 2-month period, you can get an
additional 4 months if, no later than June
16,  2025,  you  file  Form  4868.  This
TIP
CAUTION
!
8

=== PAGE 9 ===
4-month extension of time to file doesn't
extend the time to pay your tax. See
Form 4868.
Private Delivery Services
If you choose to mail your return, you
can use certain private delivery services
designated by the IRS to meet the “time-
ly  mailing  treated  as  timely  filing/
paying” rule for tax returns and pay-
ments. These private delivery services
include only the following.
•  UPS Next Day Air Early A.M.,
UPS Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air
Saver, UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day
Air A.M., UPS Worldwide Express Plus,
and UPS Worldwide Express.
•  FedEx First Overnight, FedEx Pri-
ority Overnight, FedEx Standard Over-
night, FedEx 2 Day, FedEx International
Next  Flight  Out,  FedEx  International
Priority, FedEx International First, and
FedEx International Economy.
•  DHL Express 9:00, DHL Express
10:30, DHL Express 12:00, DHL Ex-
press Worldwide, DHL Express Enve-
lope, DHL Import Express 10:30, DHL
Import Express 12:00, and DHL Import
Express Worldwide.
To check for any updates to the list of
designated private delivery services, go
to  IRS.gov/PDS . For the IRS mailing ad-
dress to use if you’re using a private de-
livery  service,  go  to  IRS.gov/
PDSStreetAddresses .
The private delivery service can tell
you how to get written proof of the mail-
ing date.
Only  the  U.S.  Postal  Service
can deliver to P.O. boxes. You
can't  use  a  private  delivery
service to make tax payments required to
be sent to a P.O. box.
CAUTION
!
Chart A—For Most People
IF your filing status is . . .
AND at the end of 2024
you were* . . .
THEN file a return if your gross
income** was at least . . .
Single  
under 65
65 or older
$14,600
16,550
Married filing jointly***
under 65 (both spouses)
65 or older (one spouse)
65 or older (both spouses)
$29,200
30,750
32,300
Married filing separately  any age  $5
Head of household  
under 65
65 or older
$21,900
23,850
Qualifying surviving spouse  
under 65
65 or older
$29,200
30,750
* If you were born on January 1, 1960, you are considered to be age 65 at the end of 2024. (If your spouse died in 2024 or
if you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2024, see Pub. 501.)
** Gross income  means all income you received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that isn't exempt from
tax, including any income from sources outside the United States or from the sale of your main home (even if you can
exclude part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits unless (a) you are married filing a separate return and
you lived with your spouse at any time in 2024, or (b) one-half of your social security benefits plus your other gross
income and any tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b) applies, see the
instructions for lines 6a and 6b to figure the taxable part of social security benefits you must include in gross income.
Gross income includes gains, but not losses, reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D. Gross income from a business means,
for example, the amount on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9. But, in figuring gross income, don’t reduce your
income by any losses, including any loss on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9.
*** If you didn't live with your spouse at the end of 2024 (or on the date your spouse died) and your gross income was at
least $5, you must file a return regardless of your age.
9

=== PAGE 10 ===
Chart B—For Children and Other Dependents  (See  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent , later.)
If your parent (or someone else) can claim you as a dependent, use this chart to see if you must file a return.
In this chart,  unearned income  includes taxable interest, ordinary dividends, and capital gain distributions. It also includes
unemployment compensation, taxable social security benefits, pensions, annuities, and distributions of unearned income from a trust.
Earned income  includes salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, and taxable scholarship and fellowship grants.  Gross income  is the
total of your unearned and earned income.
Single dependents.  Were you  either  age 65 or older  or  blind?
No.  You must file a return if  any  of the following apply.
•  Your unearned income was over $1,300.
•  Your earned income was over $14,600.
•  Your gross income was more than the  larger  of—
•  $1,300, or
•  Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $450.
Yes.  You must file a return if  any  of the following apply.
•  Your unearned income was over $3,250 ($5,200 if 65 or older  and  blind).
•  Your earned income was over $16,550 ($18,500 if 65 or older  and  blind).
•  Your gross income was more than the  larger  of—
•  $3,250 ($5,200 if 65 or older  and  blind), or
•  Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $2,400 ($4,350 if 65 or older  and  blind).
Married dependents.  Were you  either  age 65 or older  or  blind?
No.  You must file a return if  any  of the following apply.
•  Your unearned income was over $1,300.
•  Your earned income was over $14,600.
•  Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
•  Your gross income was more than the  larger  of—
•  $1,300, or
•  Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $450.
Yes.  You must file a return if  any  of the following apply.
•  Your unearned income was over $2,850 ($4,400 if 65 or older  and  blind).
•  Your earned income was over $16,150 ($17,700 if 65 or older  and  blind).
•  Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
•  Your gross income was more than the  larger  of—
•  $2,850 ($4,400 if 65 or older  and  blind), or
•  Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $2,000 ($3,550 if 65 or older  and  blind).
10

=== PAGE 11 ===
Chart C—Other Situations When You Must File
You must file a return if any of the conditions below apply for 2024.
1.  You owe any special taxes, including any of the following (see the instructions for Schedule 2).
a.  Alternative minimum tax.
b.  Additional tax on a qualified plan, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), or other tax-favored account.
c.  Household employment taxes.
d.  Social security and Medicare tax on tips you didn't report to your employer or on wages you received from an employer
who didn't withhold these taxes.
e.  Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips you reported to your employer or on group-term life
insurance and additional taxes on health savings accounts.
f.  Recapture taxes.
2.  You (or your spouse if filing jointly) received health savings account, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA
distributions.
3.  You had net earnings from self-employment of at least $400.
4.  You had wages of $108.28 or more from a church or qualified church-controlled organization that is exempt from
employer social security and Medicare taxes.
5.  Advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for you, your spouse, or a dependent who enrolled in coverage
through the Marketplace. You or whoever enrolled you should have received Form(s) 1095-A showing the amount of the
advance payments.
6.  You are required to include amounts in income under section 965 or you have a net tax liability under section 965 that you
are paying in installments under section 965(h) or deferred by making an election under section 965(i).
7.  You purchased a new or used clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by
transferring the credit to the dealer. See Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936).
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  11

=== PAGE 12 ===
Line
Instructions
for
Forms 1040
and 1040-SR
Also see the instructions for Schedule 1 through Schedule 3 that follow the
Form 1040 and 1040-SR instructions.
What form to file.  Everyone can file Form 1040. Form 1040-SR is available to you if
you were born before January 2, 1960.
Fiscal year filers.  If you are a fiscal year filer using a tax year other than January 1
through December 31, 2024, enter the beginning and ending months of your fiscal
year in the entry space provided at the top of page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Write-in information.  If you need to write a word, code, and/or dollar amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR to explain an item of income or deduction, but don't have
enough space to enter the word, code, and/or dollar amount, you can put an asterisk
next to the applicable line number and put a footnote at the bottom of page 2 of your
tax return indicating the line number and the word, code, and/or dollar amount you
need to enter.
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code.
CAUTION
!
Name and Address
Print  or  type  the  information  in  the
spaces provided. If you are married fil-
ing a separate return, enter your spouse's
name in the entry space below the filing
status checkboxes instead of below your
name. If you are currently incarcerated,
enter  your  inmate  identifying  number
near your last name.
If you filed a joint return for
2023 and you are filing a joint
return for 2024 with the same
spouse, be sure to enter your names and
SSNs in the same order as on your 2023
return.
Name Change
If you changed your name because of
marriage, divorce, etc., be sure to report
the change to the Social Security Ad-
ministration (SSA) before filing your re-
turn. This prevents delays in processing
your return and issuing refunds. It also
safeguards  your  future  social  security
benefits.
Address Change
If you plan to move after filing your re-
turn, use Form 8822 to notify the IRS of
your new address.
P.O. Box
Enter your box number only if your post
office doesn't deliver mail to your home.
Foreign Address
If you have a foreign address, enter the
city name on the appropriate line. Don’t
TIP
enter any other information on that line,
but also complete the spaces below that
line. Don’t abbreviate the country name.
Follow the country’s practice for enter-
ing the postal code and the name of the
province, county, or state.
Death of a Taxpayer
If a taxpayer died before filing a return
for 2024, the taxpayer's spouse or per-
sonal representative may have to file and
sign a return for that taxpayer. A person-
al representative can be an executor, ad-
ministrator, or anyone who is in charge
of the deceased taxpayer's property. If
the deceased taxpayer didn't have to file
a return but had tax withheld, a return
must be filed to get a refund. The person
who files the return must enter “De-
ceased,” the deceased taxpayer's name,
and the date of death across the top of
the return. If this information isn't provi-
ded, it may delay the processing of the
return.
If your spouse died in 2024 and you
didn't remarry in 2024, or if your spouse
died in 2025 before filing a return for
2024, you can file a joint return. A joint
return should show your spouse's 2024
income before death and your income
for all of 2024. Enter “Filing as surviv-
ing spouse” in the area where you sign
the return. If someone else is the person-
al representative, they must also sign.
All payers of income, including fi-
nancial institutions, should be promptly
notified  of  the  taxpayer's  death.  This
will ensure the proper reporting of in-
come earned by the taxpayer's estate or
heirs. A deceased taxpayer's social se-
curity number shouldn't be used for tax
years after the year of death, except for
estate tax return purposes.
Social Security
Number (SSN)
An incorrect or missing SSN can in-
crease your tax, reduce your refund, or
delay your refund. To apply for an SSN,
fill in Form SS-5 and return it, along
with  the  appropriate  evidence  docu-
ments, to the Social Security Adminis-
tration (SSA). You can get Form SS-5
online at  SSA.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf , from
your local SSA office, or by calling the
SSA at 800-772-1213. It usually takes
about 2 weeks to get an SSN once the
SSA has all the evidence and informa-
tion it needs.
Check that both the name and SSN
on your Forms 1040 or 1040-SR, W-2,
and 1099 agree with your social security
card. If they don’t, certain deductions
and credits on Form 1040 or 1040-SR
may be reduced or disallowed and you
may not receive credit for your social
security  earnings.  If  your  Form  W-2
shows an incorrect SSN or name, notify
your employer or the form-issuing agent
as soon as possible to make sure your
earnings are credited to your social se-
curity record. If the name or SSN on
your social security card is incorrect,
call the SSA.
Once you are issued an SSN, use it to
file your tax return. Use your SSN to file
your tax return even if your SSN does
not authorize employment or if you have
been issued an SSN that authorizes em-
12  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 13 ===
ployment and you lose your employ-
ment authorization. An ITIN won’t be
issued to you once you have been issued
an SSN. If you received your SSN after
previously using an ITIN, stop using
your ITIN. Use your SSN instead.
IRS Individual Taxpayer
Identification Numbers
(ITINs) for Aliens
If you are a nonresident or resident alien
and you don’t have and aren’t eligible to
get an SSN, you must apply for an ITIN.
It takes about 7 weeks to get an ITIN.
If you already have an ITIN, enter it
wherever your SSN is requested on your
tax return.
Some ITINs must be renewed. If you
haven't used your ITIN on a federal tax
return at least once for tax years 2021,
2022, or 2023, it has expired and must
be renewed if you need to file a federal
tax return. You don't need to renew your
ITIN if you don't need to file a federal
tax return. You can find more informa-
tion at  IRS.gov/ITIN .
An ITIN is for tax use only. It doesn't
entitle you to social security benefits or
change your employment or immigra-
tion status under U.S. law.
For more information on ITINs, in-
cluding application, expiration, and re-
newal, see Form W-7 and its instruc-
tions.
If you receive an SSN after previous-
ly using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN.
Use your SSN instead. Visit a local IRS
office or write a letter to the IRS ex-
plaining that you now have an SSN and
want all your tax records combined un-
der your SSN. Details about what to in-
clude with the letter and where to mail it
are at  IRS.gov/ITIN .
Nonresident Alien Spouse
If your spouse is a nonresident alien,
your spouse must have either an SSN or
an ITIN if:
•  You file a joint return, or
•  Your spouse is filing a separate re-
turn.
Presidential Election
Campaign Fund
This  fund  helps  pay  for  Presidential
election campaigns. The fund reduces
candidates' dependence on large contri-
butions from individuals and groups and
places candidates on an equal financial
footing in the general election. The fund
also helps pay for pediatric medical re-
search. If you want $3 to go to this fund,
check the box. If you are filing a joint
return, your spouse can also have $3 go
to the fund. If you check a box, your tax
or refund won't change.
Filing Status
Check only the filing status that applies
to you. The ones that will usually give
you the lowest tax are listed last.
•  Married filing separately.
•  Single.
•  Head of household.
•  Married filing jointly.
•  Qualifying surviving spouse.
For information about marital status, see
Pub. 501.
More than one filing status can
apply to you. You can choose
the one for which you qualify
that will give you the lowest tax.
Single
You can check the “Single” box in the
Filing Status  section on page 1 of Form
1040 or 1040-SR if any of the following
was true on December 31, 2024.
•  You were never married.
•  You were legally separated accord-
ing to your state law under a decree of
divorce or separate maintenance. But if,
at the end of 2024, your divorce wasn't
final (an interlocutory decree), you are
considered married and can't check the
box.
•  You were widowed before January
1, 2024, and didn't remarry before the
end of 2024. But if you have a child,
you may be able to use the qualifying
surviving spouse filing status. See the
instructions  for  Qualifying  Surviving
Spouse , later.
Married Filing Jointly
You can check the “Married filing joint-
ly” box in the  Filing Status  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any
of the following apply.
•  You were married at the end of
2024, even if you didn't live with your
spouse at the end of 2024.
•  Your spouse died in 2024 and you
didn't remarry in 2024.
TIP
•  You were married at the end of
2024 and your spouse died in 2025 be-
fore filing a 2024 return.
A married couple filing jointly report
their combined income and deduct their
combined allowable expenses on one re-
turn. They can file a joint return even if
only one had income or if they didn't
live  together  all  year.  However,  both
persons must sign the return. Once you
file a joint return, you can't choose to
file separate returns for that year after
the due date of the return.
Joint and several tax liability.  If you
file a joint return, both you and your
spouse are generally responsible for the
tax and interest or penalties due on the
return. This means that if one spouse
doesn't pay the tax due, the other may
have to. Or, if one spouse doesn't report
the correct tax, both spouses may be re-
sponsible for any additional taxes as-
sessed by the IRS. You may want to file
separately if:
•  You believe your spouse isn't re-
porting all of their income, or
•  You don’t want to be responsible
for any taxes due if your spouse doesn't
have enough tax withheld or doesn't pay
enough estimated tax.
See the instructions for  Married Filing
Separately . Also see  Innocent Spouse
Relief  under  General Information , later.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status ali-
ens.  Generally, a married couple can't
file a joint return if either spouse is a
nonresident alien at any time during the
year. However, you and your spouse can
choose to be treated as U.S. residents for
the entire year and file a joint return if
one spouse was a nonresident alien at
the end of the taxable year (the nonresi-
dent spouse) and the other was a U.S.
citizen or resident at the end of the taxa-
ble year. This choice remains in effect in
subsequent years until terminated. You
and your spouse can also choose to file
as U.S. residents for the entire year if
both of you are U.S. citizens or residents
at the end of the year and either (or
both) of you were a nonresident at the
beginning of the year (the dual-status
spouse(s)).  You  can  only  make  this
choice for 1 year, and it does not apply
to any future years.
If you and your spouse are making ei-
ther of these choices to be treated as
U.S. residents for 2024, check the box in
the  Filing Status  section and enter the
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  13

=== PAGE 14 ===
name of the nonresident spouse or du-
al-status spouse(s) (whichever applies to
you) in the entry space. Also check the
box and enter their name if you and your
nonresident spouse made the choice to
be treated as residents in a prior year and
the choice remains in effect.
To make either choice for 2024,
you and your spouse must file a
joint return and attach a state-
ment, signed by both spouses, to your re-
turn. To find out what information must
be included in the statement, as well as
more information on these choices, see
Nonresident Spouse Treated as a Resi-
dent  for nonresident aliens and  Choos-
ing Resident Alien Status  for dual-status
aliens in Pub. 519.
Married Filing Separately
Check the “Married filing separately”
box  in  the  Filing  Status  section  on
page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if you
are married, at the end of 2024, and file
a separate return. Enter your spouse’s
name in the entry space below the filing
status checkboxes. Be sure to enter your
spouse’s SSN or ITIN in the space for
spouse’s  SSN  on  Form  1040  or
1040-SR. If your spouse doesn’t have
and isn’t required to have an SSN or
ITIN, enter “NRA” in the entry space
below the filing status checkboxes.
For electronic filing, enter the spou-
se's  name  or  “NRA”  if  the  spouse
doesn’t have an SSN or ITIN in the en-
try space below the filing status check-
boxes.
If you are married and file a separate
return, you generally report only your
own  income,  deductions,  and  credits.
Generally, you are responsible only for
the tax on your own income. Different
rules  apply  to  people  in  community
property states; see Pub. 555.
However, you will usually pay more
tax than if you use another filing status
for which you qualify. Also, if you file a
separate return, you can't take the stu-
dent loan interest deduction or the edu-
cation credits, and you will only be able
to take the earned income credit and
child and dependent care credit in very
limited  circumstances.  You  also  can't
take  the  standard  deduction  if  your
spouse itemizes deductions. For situa-
tions when you might want to file sepa-
rately, see  Joint and several tax liability ,
earlier.
CAUTION
!
You may be able to file as head
of household if you had a child
living with you and you lived
apart from your spouse during the last 6
months of 2024. See  Married persons
who live apart , later.
Head of Household
You can check the “Head of household”
box  in  the  Filing  Status  section  on
page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if you
are unmarried and provide a home for
certain other persons. You are consid-
ered unmarried for this purpose if any of
the following applies.
•  You were legally separated accord-
ing to your state law under a decree of
divorce or separate maintenance at the
end of 2024. But if, at the end of 2024,
your divorce wasn't final (an interlocuto-
ry decree), you are considered married.
•  You are married but lived apart
from your spouse for the last 6 months
of 2024 and you meet the other rules un-
der  Married persons who live apart , lat-
er.
•  You are married and your spouse
was a nonresident alien at any time dur-
ing the year and the election to treat the
alien spouse as a resident alien is not
made. See  Nonresident aliens and du-
al-status aliens , earlier.
Check the “Head of household” box on-
ly if you are unmarried (or considered
unmarried) and either  Test 1  or  Test 2
applies.
Test 1.  You paid over half the cost of
keeping up a home that was the main
home for all of 2024 of your parent
whom you can claim as a dependent, ex-
cept under a multiple support agreement
(see  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent ,
later). Your parent didn't have to live
with you.
Test 2.  You paid over half the cost of
keeping up a home in which you lived
and in which one of the following also
lived for more than half of the year (if
half or less, see  Exception to time lived
with you , later).
1.  Any person whom you can claim
as a dependent. But don’t include:
a.  Your child whom you claim as
your dependent because of the rule for
Children of divorced or separated pa-
rents  under  Who Qualifies as Your De-
pendent , later;
TIP
b.  Any person who is your depend-
ent only because the person lived with
you for all of 2024; or
c.  Any person you claimed as a de-
pendent under a multiple support agree-
ment. See  Who Qualifies as Your De-
pendent , later.
2.  Your unmarried qualifying child
who isn't your dependent.
3.  Your  married  qualifying  child
who isn't your dependent only because
you can be claimed as a dependent on
someone else's 2024 return.
4.  Your qualifying child who, even
though you are the custodial parent, isn't
your dependent because of the rule for
Children of divorced or separated pa-
rents  under  Who Qualifies as Your De-
pendent , later.
If the child isn't claimed as your de-
pendent, enter the child's name in the en-
try space below the filing status check-
boxes. If you don’t enter the name, it
will take us longer to process your re-
turn.
Qualifying child.  To find out if some-
one is your qualifying child, see Step 1
under  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent ,
later.
Dependent.  To find out if someone is
your dependent, see  Who Qualifies as
Your Dependent , later.
The dependents you claim are
those you list by name and SSN
in the  Dependents  section on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Exception  to  time  lived  with  you.
Temporary absences by you or the other
person for special circumstances, such
as school, vacation, business, medical
care, military service, or detention in a
juvenile facility, count as time lived in
the home. Also see  Kidnapped child , lat-
er, under  Who Qualifies as Your De-
pendent , if applicable.
If the person for whom you kept up a
home was born or died in 2024, you still
may be able to file as head of household.
If the person is your qualifying child, the
child must have lived with you for more
than half the part of the year the child
was alive. If the person is anyone else,
see Pub. 501. Similarly, if you adopted
the person for whom you kept up a
home in 2024, the person was lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption by
TIP
14  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 15 ===
you in 2024, or the person was an eligi-
ble foster child placed with you during
2024, the person is considered to have
lived with you for more than half of
2024 if your main home was this per-
son’s main home for more than half the
time since the person was adopted or
placed with you in 2024.
Keeping up a home.  To find out what
is included in the cost of keeping up a
home, see Pub. 501.
Married persons who live apart.  Even
if you weren’t divorced or legally sepa-
rated at the end of 2024, you are consid-
ered unmarried if all of the following
apply.
•  You lived apart from your spouse
for the last 6 months of 2024. Tempora-
ry absences for special circumstances,
such  as  for  business,  medical  care,
school, or military service, count as time
lived in the home.
•  You  file  a  separate  return  from
your spouse.
•  You  paid  over  half  the  cost  of
keeping up your home for 2024.
•  Your home was the main home of
your child, stepchild, or foster child for
more than half of 2024 (if half or less,
see  Exception to time lived with you ,
earlier).
•  You can claim this child as your
dependent or could claim the child ex-
cept that the child's other parent can
claim the child under the rule for  Chil-
dren of divorced or separated parents
under  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent ,
later.
Adopted child.  An adopted child is
always treated as your own child. An
adopted child includes a child lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption.
Foster child.  A foster child is any
child placed with you by an authorized
placement agency or by judgment, de-
cree, or other order of any court of com-
petent jurisdiction.
Qualifying Surviving
Spouse
You can check the “Qualifying surviving
spouse” box in the  Filing Status  section
on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and
use joint return tax rates for 2024 if all
of the following apply.
1.  Your spouse died in 2022 or 2023
and you didn't remarry before the end of
2024.
2.  You have a child or stepchild (not
a foster child) whom you can claim as a
dependent or could claim as a dependent
except that, for 2024:
a.  The child had gross income of
$5,050 or more,
b.  The child filed a joint return, or
c.  You could be claimed as a de-
pendent on someone else’s return.
If the child isn’t claimed as your de-
pendent, enter the child’s name in the
entry  space  below  the  filing  status
checkboxes. If you don’t enter the name,
it will take us longer to process your re-
turn.
3.  This child lived in your home for
all of 2024. If the child didn't live with
you for the required time, see  Exception
to time lived with you , later.
4.  You paid over half the cost of
keeping up your home.
5.  You could have filed a joint re-
turn  with  your  spouse  the  year  your
spouse died, even if you didn't actually
do so.
If your spouse died in 2024, you can't
file as qualifying surviving spouse. In-
stead, see the instructions for  Married
Filing Jointly,  earlier.
Adopted child.  An adopted child is al-
ways  treated  as  your  own  child.  An
adopted child includes a child lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption.
Dependent.  To find out if someone is
your dependent, see  Who Qualifies as
Your Dependent , later.
The dependents you claim are
those you list by name and SSN
in the  Dependents  section on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Exception  to  time  lived  with  you.
Temporary absences by you or the child
for  special  circumstances,  such  as
school, vacation, business, medical care,
military service, or detention in a juve-
nile facility, count as time lived in the
home. Also see  Kidnapped child , later,
under  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent ,
if applicable.
A child is considered to have lived
with you for all of 2024 if the child was
born or died in 2024 and your home was
the child's home for the entire time the
child was alive. Similarly, if you adop-
ted the child in 2024, or the child was
lawfully placed with you for legal adop-
TIP
tion by you in 2024, the child is consid-
ered to have lived with you for all of
2024 if your main home was this child's
main home for the entire time since the
child was adopted or placed with you in
2024.
Keeping up a home.  To find out what
is included in the cost of keeping up a
home, see Pub. 501.
Digital Assets
Digital assets are any digital representa-
tions of value that are recorded on a
cryptographically  secured  distributed
ledger or any similar technology. For ex-
ample, digital assets include non-fungi-
ble tokens (NFTs) and virtual currencies,
such  as  cryptocurrencies  and  stable-
coins. If a particular asset has the char-
acteristics of a digital asset, it will be
treated as a digital asset for federal in-
come tax purposes.
Check  the  “Yes”  box  next  to  the
question on digital assets on page 1 of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR if at any time
during 2024, you (a) received (as a re-
ward, award, or payment for property or
services); or (b) sold, exchanged, or oth-
erwise disposed of a digital asset (or any
financial interest in any digital asset).
For example, check “Yes” if at any
time during 2024 you:
•  Received digital assets as payment
for property or services provided;
•  Received digital assets as a result
of a reward or award;
•  Received new digital assets as a
result of mining, staking, and similar ac-
tivities;
•  Received digital assets as a result
of a hard fork;
•  Disposed of digital assets in ex-
change for property or services;
•  Disposed of a digital asset in ex-
change or trade for another digital asset;
•  Sold a digital asset; or
•  Otherwise disposed of any other fi-
nancial interest in a digital asset.
You have a financial interest in a dig-
ital asset if you are the owner of record
of a digital asset, or have an ownership
stake in an account that holds one or
more digital assets, including the rights
and obligations to acquire a financial in-
terest, or you own a wallet that holds
digital assets.
The following actions or transactions
in 2024, alone, generally don’t require
you to check “Yes”:
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  15

=== PAGE 16 ===
•  Holding a digital asset in a wallet
or account;
•  Transferring a digital asset from
one wallet or account you own or con-
trol to another wallet or account that you
own or control; or
•  Purchasing  digital  assets  using
U.S. or other real currency, including
through the use of electronic platforms
such as PayPal and Venmo.
Do not leave the question unan-
swered. You must answer “Yes”
or “No” by checking the appro-
priate box. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/VirtualCurrencyFAQs .
How To Report Digital Asset
Transactions
If, in 2024, you disposed of any digital
asset, which you held as a capital asset,
through a sale, trade, exchange, pay-
ment, or other transfer, check “Yes” and
use Form 8949 to calculate your capital
gain or loss and report that gain or loss
on Schedule D (Form 1040).
If you received any digital asset as
compensation for services or disposed of
any digital asset that you held for sale to
customers in a trade or business, you
must report the income as you would re-
port other income of the same type (for
example, W-2 wages on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1a, or inventory or serv-
ices on Schedule C).
If you received ordinary income in
connection with digital assets that isn't
reported elsewhere on your return, see
the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8v.
If you disposed of any digital asset by
gift, you may be required to file Form
709. See  Who Must File  and  Transfers
Subject to the Gift Tax  in the Instructions
for Form 709 for more information.
Standard Deduction
If you are filing Form 1040-SR,
you can find a Standard Deduc-
tion Chart on the last page of
that form. Don’t file the Standard De-
duction Chart with your return.
CAUTION
!
TIP
Single and Married Filing
Jointly
If you or your spouse (if you are married
and filing a joint return) can be claimed
as a dependent on someone else’s return,
check the appropriate box in the  Stand-
ard Deduction  section.
If you are married and file a joint re-
turn, you can be claimed as a dependent
on someone else's return if you file the
joint return only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid.
If you were a dual-status alien, check
the “Spouse itemizes on a separate re-
turn or you were a dual-status alien”
box. If you were a dual-status alien and
you file a joint return with your spouse
who was a U.S. citizen or resident alien
at the end of 2024 and you and your
spouse agree to be taxed on your com-
bined worldwide income, don’t check
the box. See  Nonresident aliens and du-
al-status aliens , earlier, for more infor-
mation on making the election for you
and your spouse to be taxed on your
combined worldwide income.
Age/Blindness
If you or your spouse (if you are married
and filing a joint return) were born be-
fore January 2, 1960, or were blind at
the end of 2024, check the appropriate
boxes on the line labeled “Age/Blind-
ness.”
Don’t  check  any  boxes  for  your
spouse if your filing status is head of
household.
Death  of  spouse  in  2024.  If  your
spouse was born before January 2, 1960,
but died in 2024 before reaching age 65,
don’t check the box that says “Spouse
was born before January 2, 1960.”
A person is considered to reach age
65 on the day before the person’s 65th
birthday.
Example.  Your spouse was born on
February 14, 1959, and died on February
13, 2024. Your spouse is considered age
65 at the time of death. Check the appro-
priate box for your spouse. However, if
your spouse died on February 12, 2024,
your  spouse  isn't  considered  age  65.
Don’t check the box.
Death of taxpayer in 2024.  If you are
preparing a return for someone who died
in 2024, see Pub. 501 before completing
the standard deduction information.
Blindness
If you weren’t totally blind as of Decem-
ber 31, 2024, you must get a statement
certified by your eye doctor (ophthal-
mologist or optometrist) that:
•  You can't see better than 20/200 in
your better eye with glasses or contact
lenses, or
•  Your field of vision is 20 degrees
or less.
If your eye condition isn't likely to
improve  beyond  the  conditions  listed
above, you can get a statement certified
by your eye doctor (ophthalmologist or
optometrist) to this effect instead. You
must keep the statement for your re-
cords.
If you receive a notice or letter but
you would prefer to have it in Braille or
large print, you can use Form 9000, Al-
ternative Media Preference, to request
notices in an alternative format includ-
ing Braille, large print, audio, or elec-
tronic. You can attach Form 9000 to
your return or mail it separately.
•  You can download, or view online,
tax forms and publications in a variety
of formats including text-only, Braille
ready  files,  browser-friendly  HTML
(other than tax forms), accessible PDF,
and large print.
Married Filing Separately
If your filing status is married filing sep-
arately and your spouse itemizes deduc-
tions on their return, check the “Spouse
itemizes  on  a  separate  return  or  you
were a dual-status alien” box.
If your filing status is married filing
separately and your spouse was born be-
fore January 2, 1960, or was blind at the
end of 2024, you can check the appro-
priate box(es) on the line labeled “Age/
Blindness” if your spouse had no in-
come, isn't filing a return, and can't be
claimed as a dependent on another per-
son's return.
16  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 17 ===
Who Qualifies as Your
Dependent
Dependents, Qualifying Child for Child Tax
Credit, and Credit for Other Dependents
Follow the steps below to find out if a person qualifies as your
dependent and to find out if your dependent qualifies you to
take the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents. If
you have more than four dependents, check the box under  De-
pendents  on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and include a
statement showing the information required in columns (1)
through (4).
The dependents you claim are those you list by name
and SSN in the  Dependents  section on Form 1040 or
1040-SR.
Before you begin.  See the definition of  Social security num-
ber , later. If you want to claim the child tax credit or the credit
for other dependents, you (and your spouse if filing jointly)
must have an SSN or ITIN issued on or before the due date of
your 2024 return (including extensions). If an ITIN is applied
for on or before the due date of a 2024 return (including exten-
sions) and the IRS issues an ITIN as a result of the application,
the IRS will consider the ITIN as issued on or before the due
date of the return.
TIP
Do You Have a Qualifying
Child?
A qualifying child is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half
brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild,
niece, or nephew)
AND
was ...
Under age 19 at the end of 2024 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Under age 24 at the end of 2024, a student (defined later), and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)
AND
Who didn't provide over half of their own support for 2024 (see Pub. 501)
AND
Who isn't filing a joint return for 2024
or is filing a joint return for 2024 only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or
estimated tax paid (see Pub. 501 for details and examples)
AND
Who lived with you for more than half of 2024. If the child didn't live with you
for the required time, see  Exception to time lived with you , later.
CAUTION
!
If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any
other person (other than your spouse if filing jointly) for 2024, see
Qualifying child of more than one person,  later.
1.  Do you have a child who meets the conditions to be your
qualifying child?
Yes.  Go to Step 2.  No.  Go to Step 4.
Step 1
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  17

=== PAGE 18 ===
Is Your Qualifying Child Your
Dependent?
1.  Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, U.S. resident
alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See Pub. 519 for
the definition of a U.S. national or U.S. resident alien. If the
child was adopted, see  Exception to citizen test , later.)
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can't claim this child
as a dependent.
2.  Was the child married?
Yes.  See  Married
person , later.  
No.  Continue

3.  Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
Yes.  You can claim this
child as a dependent.
Complete columns (1)
through (3) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this child.
Then, go to Step 3.
No.  Continue

4.  Could you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's
2024 tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their
2024 tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024
tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
Yes. STOP
You can't claim any
dependents.  Complete
the rest of Form 1040 or
1040-SR and any
applicable schedules.
No.  You can claim this
child as a dependent.
Complete columns (1)
through (3) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this child.
Then, go to Step 3.
Does Your Qualifying Child
Qualify You for the Child Tax
Credit or Credit for Other
Dependents?
1.  Did the child have an SSN, ITIN, or adoption taxpayer
identification number (ATIN) issued on or before the due
date of your return (including extensions)? (Answer “Yes” if
you are applying for an ITIN or ATIN for the child on or
before the due date of your return (including extensions).)
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can’t claim the child
tax credit or the credit for
other dependents for this
child.
2.  Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. resident
alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or
Step 2
Step 3
U.S. resident alien. If the child was adopted, see  Exception
to citizen test , later.)
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can’t claim the child
tax credit or the credit for
other dependents for this
child.
3.  Was the child under age 17 at the end of 2024?
Yes.  Continue

 No.  You can claim the
credit for other
dependents for this child.
Check the “Credit for
other dependents” box in
column (4) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this person.
4.  Did this child have an SSN valid for employment issued
before the due date of your 2024 return (including
extensions)? (See  Social Security Number , later.)
Yes.  You can claim the
child tax credit for this
person.  Check the
“Child tax credit” box
in column (4) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this
person.
No. STOP
You can claim the credit
for other dependents for
this child.  Check the
“Credit for other
dependents” box in
column (4) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this person.
18  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 19 ===
Is Your Qualifying Relative
Your Dependent?
A qualifying relative is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, or a descendant of any of them (for
example, your grandchild)
or
Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, or a son or daughter of any of them (for
example, your niece or nephew)
or
Father, mother, or an ancestor or sibling of either of them (for example, your
grandmother, grandfather, aunt, or uncle)
or
Stepbrother, stepsister, stepfather, stepmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law
or
Any other person (other than your spouse) who lived with you all year as a
member of your household if your relationship didn't violate local law. If the
person didn't live with you for the required time, see  Exception to time lived with
you , later.
AND
Who wasn't a qualifying child (see Step 1) of any taxpayer for 2024. For this
purpose, a person isn't a taxpayer if the person isn't required to file a U.S. income
tax return  and  either doesn't file such a return or files only to get a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid. See Pub. 501 for details and examples.
AND
Who had gross income of less than $5,050 in 2024. If the person was permanently
and totally disabled, see  Exception to gross income test , later.
AND
For whom you provided over half of the person’s support in 2024. But see
Children of divorced or separated parents ,  Multiple support agreements , and
Kidnapped child , later.
1.  Does any person meet the conditions to be your qualifying
relative?
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
2.  Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national,
U.S. resident alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See
Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or U.S.
resident alien. If your qualifying relative was adopted, see
Exception to citizen test , later.)
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can't claim this
person as a dependent.
Step 4  3.  Was your qualifying relative married?
Yes.  See  Married
person , later.  
No.  Continue

4.  Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
Yes.  You can claim
this person as a
dependent. Complete
columns (1) through (3)
of the  Dependents
section on page 1 of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Then, go to Step 5.
No.  Continue

5.  Could you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's
2024 tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their
2024 tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024
tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
Yes. STOP
You can't claim any
dependents. Complete
the rest of Form 1040 or
1040-SR and any
applicable schedules.
No.  You can claim this
person as a dependent.
Complete columns (1)
through (3) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Then, go to
Step 5.
Does Your Qualifying Relative
Qualify You for the Credit for
Other Dependents?
1.  Did your qualifying relative have an SSN, ITIN, or ATIN
issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return
(including extensions)? (Answer “Yes” if you are applying
for an ITIN or ATIN for the qualifying relative on or before
the return due date (including extensions).)
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can’t claim the
credit for other
dependents for this
qualifying relative.
2.  Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or
U.S. resident alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a
U.S. national or a U.S. resident alien. If your qualifying
relative was adopted, see  Exception to citizen test , later.)
Yes.  You can claim the
credit for other
dependents for this
dependent.  Check the
“Credit for other
dependents” box in
column (4) of the
Dependents  section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this
person.
No. STOP
You can’t claim the
credit for other
dependents for this
qualifying relative.
Step 5
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  19

=== PAGE 20 ===
Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child.  An adopted child is always treated as your own
child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption.
Adoption taxpayer identification numbers (ATINs).  If you
have a dependent who was placed with you for legal adoption
and you don’t know the dependent’s SSN, you must get an
ATIN for the dependent from the IRS. See Form W-7A for de-
tails. If the dependent isn't a U.S. citizen or resident alien, apply
for an ITIN instead using Form W-7.
Children of divorced or separated parents.  A child will be
treated as the qualifying child or qualifying relative of the
child’s noncustodial parent (defined later) if all of the following
conditions apply.
1.  The parents are divorced, legally separated, separated un-
der a written separation agreement, or lived apart at all times
during the last 6 months of 2024 (whether or not they are or
were married).
2.  The child received over half of the child’s support for
2024 from the parents (and the rules on  Multiple support agree-
ments , later, don’t apply). Support of a child received from a pa-
rent's spouse is treated as provided by the parent.
3.  The child is in custody of one or both of the parents for
more than half of 2024.
4.  Either of the following applies.
a.  The custodial parent signs Form 8332 or a substantially
similar statement that they won't claim the child as a dependent
for 2024, and the noncustodial parent includes a copy of the
form or statement with their return. If the divorce decree or sep-
aration agreement went into effect after 1984 and before 2009,
the noncustodial parent may be able to include certain pages
from  the  decree  or  agreement  instead  of  Form  8332.  See
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement  and  Post-2008 de-
cree or agreement .
b.  A pre-1985 decree of divorce or separate maintenance or
written separation agreement between the parents provides that
the noncustodial parent can claim the child as a dependent, and
the noncustodial parent provides at least $600 for support of the
child during 2024.
If conditions (1) through (4) apply, only the noncustodial pa-
rent can claim the child for purposes of the child tax credits and
credit for other dependents (lines 19 and 28). However, this
doesn't allow the noncustodial parent to claim head of house-
hold filing status, the credit for child and dependent care expen-
ses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits, or the earned in-
come credit. The custodial parent or another taxpayer, if eligi-
ble, can claim the child for the earned income credit and these
other benefits. See Pub. 501 for details.
Custodial and noncustodial parents.  The custodial parent is
the parent with whom the child lived for the greater number of
nights in 2024. The noncustodial parent is the other parent. If
the child was with each parent for an equal number of nights,
the custodial parent is the parent with the higher adjusted gross
income. See Pub. 501 for an exception for a parent who works
at night, rules for a child who is emancipated under state law,
and other details.
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement.  The decree
or agreement must state all three of the following.
1.  The noncustodial parent can claim the child as a depend-
ent without regard to any condition, such as payment of support.
2.  The other parent won't claim the child as a dependent.
3.  The years for which the claim is released.
The noncustodial parent must include all of the following pa-
ges from the decree or agreement.
•  Cover page (include the other parent's SSN on that page).
•  The pages that include all the information identified in (1)
through (3) above.
•  Signature page with the other parent's signature and date
of agreement.
You must include the required information even if you
filed it with your return in an earlier year.
Post-2008 decree or agreement.  If the divorce decree or
separation agreement went into effect after 2008, the noncusto-
dial parent can't include pages from the decree or agreement in-
stead of Form 8332. The custodial parent must sign either Form
8332 or a substantially similar statement the only purpose of
which is to release the custodial parent's claim to certain tax
benefits for a child, and the noncustodial parent must include a
copy with their return. The form or statement must release the
custodial parent's claim to the child without any conditions. For
example, the release must not depend on the noncustodial pa-
rent paying support.
Release of certain tax benefits revoked.  A custodial parent
who has revoked their previous release of a claim to certain tax
benefits for a child must include a copy of the revocation with
their return. For details, see Form 8332.
Exception to citizen test.  If you are a U.S. citizen or U.S. na-
tional and your adopted child lived with you all year as a mem-
ber of your household, that child meets the requirement to be a
U.S. citizen in Step 2, question 1; Step 3, question 2; Step 4,
question 2; and Step 5, question 2.
Exception to gross income test.  If your relative (including a
person who lived with you all year as a member of your house-
hold) is permanently and totally disabled (defined later), certain
income for services performed at a sheltered workshop may be
excluded for this test. For details, see Pub. 501.
Exception to time lived with you.  Temporary absences by you
or the other person for special circumstances, such as school,
vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention
in a juvenile facility, count as time the person lived with you.
Also see  Children of divorced or separated parents , earlier, or
Kidnapped child , later.
If the person meets all other requirements to be your qualify-
ing child but was born or died in 2024, the person is considered
to have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if your home
was this person's home for more than half the time the person
was alive in 2024. If the person meets all other requirements to
be your qualifying child but you adopted the person in 2024, the
CAUTION
!
20  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 21 ===
person was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you
in 2024, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with
you during 2024, the person is considered to have lived with
you for more than half of 2024 if your main home was this per-
son's main home for more than half the time since the person
was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Any other person is considered to have lived with you for all
of 2024 if the person was born or died in 2024 and your home
was this person's home for the entire time the person was alive
in 2024 or if you adopted the person in 2024, the person was
lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or
the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during
2024 and your main home was the person's main home for the
entire time since the person was adopted or placed with you in
2024.
Foster child.  A foster child is any child placed with you by an
authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other
order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Kidnapped child.  If your child is presumed by law enforce-
ment authorities to have been kidnapped by someone who isn't a
family member, you may be able to take the child into account
in determining your eligibility for head of household or qualify-
ing surviving spouse filing status, the child tax credit, the credit
for other dependents, and the earned income credit (EIC). For
details, see Pub. 501 (Pub. 596 for the EIC).
Married person.  If the person is married and files a joint re-
turn, you can't claim that person as your dependent. However, if
the person is married but doesn't file a joint return or files a
joint return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or es-
timated tax paid, you may be able to claim that person as a de-
pendent. (See Pub. 501 for details and examples.) In that case,
go to Step 2, question 3 (for a qualifying child), or Step 4, ques-
tion 4 (for a qualifying relative).
Multiple support agreements.  If no one person contributed
over half of the support of your relative (or a person who lived
with you all year as a member of your household) but you and
another person(s) provided more than half of your relative's
support, special rules may apply that would treat you as having
provided over half of the support. For details, see Pub. 501.
Permanently and totally disabled.  A person is permanently
and totally disabled if, at any time in 2024, the person can't en-
gage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical or
mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condition
has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at least a
year or can be expected to lead to death.
Public assistance payments.  If you received payments under
the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program
or other public assistance program and you used the money to
support another person, see Pub. 501.
Qualifying child of more than one person.  Even if a child
meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one
person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child
for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents , described earlier, ap-
plies.
1.  Child tax credit and credit for other dependents (line 19)
and additional child tax credit (line 28).
2.  Head of household filing status.
3.  Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule
3, line 2).
4.  Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part
III).
5.  Earned income credit (line 27).
No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed
based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can
claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply.
For purposes of these rules, the term "parent" means a biologi-
cal or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a step-
parent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the indi-
vidual.
•  If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is
treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
•  If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the
child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the parents.
•  If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both pa-
rents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the
child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child
lived for the longer period of time in 2024. If the child lived
with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat
the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the high-
er adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024.
•  If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the
child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the
highest AGI for 2024.
•  If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no
parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualify-
ing child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024, but
only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any
parent of the child who can claim the child.
Example.  Your child meets the conditions to be a qualifying
child for both you and your parent. Your child doesn't meet the
conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, includ-
ing your child’s other parent. Under the rules just described, you
can claim your child as a qualifying child for all of the five tax
benefits just listed for which you otherwise qualify. Your parent
can't claim any of those five tax benefits based on your child.
However, if your parent’s AGI is higher than yours and you do
not claim your child as a qualifying child, your child is the qual-
ifying child of your parent.
For more details and examples, see Pub. 501.
If you will be claiming the child as a qualifying child, go to
Step 2. Otherwise, stop; you can't claim any benefits based on
this child.
Social security number.  You must enter each dependent's so-
cial security number (SSN). Be sure the name and SSN entered
agree with the dependent's social security card. Otherwise, at
the time we process your return, we may reduce or disallow any
tax benefits (such as the child tax credit) based on that depend-
ent. If the name or SSN on the dependent's social security card
isn't correct or you need to get an SSN for your dependent, con-
tact  the  Social  Security  Administration  (SSA).  See  Social
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  21

=== PAGE 22 ===
Security Number (SSN) , earlier. If your dependent won't have a
number by the date your return is due, see  What if You Can't
File on Time?  earlier.
For the child tax credit, your child must have the required
SSN. The required SSN is one that is valid for employment and
that is issued by the SSA before the due date of your 2024 re-
turn (including extensions). If your child was a U.S. citizen
when the child received the SSN, the SSN is valid for employ-
ment. If “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on your child’s
social security card and your child’s immigration status has
changed so that your child is now a U.S. citizen or permanent
resident, ask the SSA for a new social security card without the
legend. However, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authori-
zation” is printed on your child’s social security card, your child
has the required SSN only as long as the DHS authorization is
valid.
If your dependent child was born and died in 2024 and you
do not have an SSN for the child, enter “Died” in column (2) of
the  Dependents  section and include a copy of the child's birth
certificate, death certificate, or hospital records. The document
must show the child was born alive.
If you, or your spouse if filing jointly, didn't have an SSN (or
ITIN) issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (in-
cluding extensions), you can't claim the child tax credit or the
credit for other dependents on your original or an amended
2024 return.
If you apply for an ITIN on or before the due date of your
2024 return (including extensions) and the IRS issues you an
ITIN as a result of the application, the IRS will consider your
ITIN as issued on or before the due date of your return.
Student.  A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar
months of 2024 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school
or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or
a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a
technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an
on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school of-
fering courses only through the Internet.
22  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 23 ===
Income
Generally, you must report all income
except income that is exempt from tax
by law. For details, see the following in-
structions and the Schedule 1 instruc-
tions, especially the instructions for lines
1 through 7 and Schedule 1, lines 1
through 8z. Also see Pub. 525.
Forgiveness of Paycheck
Protection Program (PPP)
Loans
You don’t need to include the amount of
a forgiven PPP Loan in your income.
Although you don’t need to report the
income  from  the  forgiveness  of  your
PPP Loan on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
you do need to report certain informa-
tion related to your PPP Loan as an at-
tachment to your tax return. For more
information, see Pub. 525.
Foreign-Source Income
You must report unearned income, such
as  interest,  dividends,  and  pensions,
from sources outside the United States
unless exempt by law or a tax treaty.
You must also report earned income,
such as wages and tips, from sources
outside the United States.
If you worked abroad, you may be
able to exclude part or all of your for-
eign  earned  income.  For  details,  see
Pub. 54 and Form 2555.
Foreign retirement plans.  If you were
a  beneficiary  of  a  foreign  retirement
plan, you may have to report the undis-
tributed  income  earned  in  your  plan.
However, if you were the beneficiary of
a Canadian registered retirement plan,
see Rev. Proc. 2014-55, 2014-44 I.R.B.
753,  available  at  IRS.gov/irb/
2014-44_IRB#RP-2014-55 , to find out if
you can elect to defer tax on the undis-
tributed income.
Report  distributions  from  foreign
pension plans on lines 5a and 5b.
Foreign  accounts  and  trusts.  You
must complete Part III of Schedule B if
you:
•  Had a foreign account; or
•  Received a distribution from, or
were a grantor of, or a transferor to, a
foreign trust.
You may also have to file Form 3520.
Foreign  financial  assets.  If  you  had
foreign  financial  assets  in  2024,  you
may have to file Form 8938. See Form
8938 and its instructions.
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
Cases
If you are a debtor in a chapter 11 bank-
ruptcy case, income taxable to the bank-
ruptcy estate and reported on the estate's
income tax return includes:
•  Earnings from services you per-
formed after the beginning of the case
(both  wages  and  self-employment  in-
come); and
•  Income from property described in
section 541 of title 11 of the U.S. Code
that you either owned when the case be-
gan or that you acquired after the case
began and before the case was closed,
dismissed, or converted to a case under a
different chapter.
Because this income is taxable to the
estate, don’t include this income on your
own individual income tax return. The
only exception is for purposes of figur-
ing your self-employment tax. For that
purpose, you must take into account all
your  self-employment  income  for  the
year from services performed both be-
fore and after the beginning of the case.
Also, you (or the trustee if one is ap-
pointed) must allocate between you and
the bankruptcy estate the wages, salary,
or other compensation and withheld in-
come tax reported to you on Form W-2.
A similar allocation is required for in-
come and withheld income tax reported
to you on Forms 1099. You must also in-
clude a statement that indicates you filed
a chapter 11 case and that explains how
income and withheld income tax repor-
ted to you on Forms W-2 and 1099 are
allocated between you and the estate.
For more details, including acceptable
allocation methods, see Notice 2006-83,
2006-40 I.R.B. 596, available at
IRS.gov/irb/
2006-40_IRB#NOT-2006-83 .
Community Property States
Community property states include Ari-
zona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Ne-
vada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington,
and Wisconsin. If you and your spouse
lived in a community property state, you
must usually follow state law to deter-
mine what is community income and
what is separate income. For details, see
Form 8958 and Pub. 555.
Nevada, Washington, and California
domestic  partners.  A  registered  do-
mestic partner in Nevada, Washington,
or California must generally report half
the combined community income of the
individual  and  their  domestic  partner.
See Form 8958 and Pub. 555.
Rounding Off to Whole
Dollars
You can round off cents to whole dollars
on your return and schedules. If you do
round to whole dollars, you must round
all amounts. To round, drop amounts un-
der 50 cents and increase amounts from
50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For ex-
ample, $1.39 becomes $1 and $2.50 be-
comes $3.
If  you  have  to  add  two  or  more
amounts to figure the amount to enter on
a line, include cents when adding the
amounts and round off only the total.
If you are entering amounts that in-
clude cents, make sure to include the
decimal point. There is no cents column
on the form.
The lines on Forms 1040 and
1040-SR are the same. Referen-
ces to lines in the following in-
structions  refer  to  the  line  on  either
form.
Line 1a
Total Amount From Form(s)
W-2, Box 1
Enter  the  total  amount  from  Form(s)
W-2, box 1. If a joint return, also in-
clude  your  spouse's  income  from
Form(s) W-2, box 1.
If you earned wages while you
were an inmate in a penal insti-
tution, report these amounts on
Schedule 1, line 8u. Do not report these
wages on line 1a. See the instructions
for Schedule 1, line 8u.
If you received a pension or an-
nuity from a nonqualified defer-
red  compensation  plan  or  a
nongovernmental  section  457(b)  plan
and it was reported in box 1 of Form
W-2,  do  not  include  this  amount  on
Form 1040, line 1a. This amount is re-
ported on Schedule 1, line 8t.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  23

=== PAGE 24 ===
Line 1b
Household Employee
Wages Not Reported on
Form(s) W-2
Enter the total of your wages received as
a household employee that was not re-
ported on Form(s) W-2. An employer
isn’t required to provide a Form W-2 to
you if they paid you wages of less than
$2,700 in 2024. For information on em-
ployment taxes for household employ-
ees, see  Tax Topic 756 .
Line 1c
Tip Income Not Reported on
Line 1a
Enter the total of your tip income that
was not reported on Form 1040, line 1a.
This should include any tip income you
didn’t report to your employer and any
allocated tips shown in box 8 on your
Form(s) W-2 unless you can prove that
your unreported tips are less than the
amount in box 8. Allocated tips aren't in-
cluded as income in box 1. See Pub. 531
for more details. Also include the value
of any noncash tips you received, such
as tickets, passes, or other items of val-
ue. Although you don’t report these non-
cash tips to your employer, you must re-
port them on line 1c.
You  may  owe  social  security
and Medicare or railroad re-
tirement (RRTA) tax on unre-
ported  tips.  See  the  instructions  for
Schedule 2, line 5.
Line 1d
Medicaid Waiver Payments
Not Reported on Form(s)
W-2, Box 1
Enter  your  taxable  Medicaid  waiver
payments  that  were  not  reported  on
Form(s) W-2. Also enter the total of
your taxable and nontaxable Medicaid
waiver payments that were not reported
on  Form(s)  W-2,  or  not  reported  in
box 1 of Form(s) W-2, if you choose to
include nontaxable payments in earned
income for purposes of claiming a credit
or other tax benefit. If you and your
spouse both received nontaxable Medic-
aid waiver payments during the year,
CAUTION
!
you and your spouse can make different
choices  about  including  payments  in
earned income. See the instructions for
Schedule 1, line 8s. If you are a sole
proprietor  in  a  business  of  providing
home care services, see the Schedule C
instructions  for  how  to  report  these
amounts.
Your  nontaxable  Medicaid
waiver  payments  may  have
been  reported  to  you  on
Form(s) W-2, box 12, with Code II.
If  you  received  nontaxable
Medicaid waiver payments, and
box 1 of your Form(s) W-2 is
blank or has zeros, and you are choos-
ing not to include nontaxable payments
in earned income for purposes of claim-
ing a credit, do not attach any of these
Form(s) W-2 to your return.
Line 1e
Taxable Dependent Care
Benefits From Form 2441,
Line 26
Enter the total of your taxable dependent
care benefits from Form 2441, line 26.
Dependent  care  benefits  should  be
shown in box 10 of your Form(s) W-2.
But first complete Form 2441 to see if
you can exclude part or all of the bene-
fits.
Line 1f
Employer-Provided
Adoption Benefits From
Form 8839, Line 29
Enter the total of your employer-provi-
ded adoption benefits from Form 8839,
line  29.  Employer-provided  adoption
benefits should be shown in box 12 of
your Form(s) W-2 with code T. But see
the Instructions for Form 8839 to find
out if you can exclude part or all of the
benefits. You may also be able to ex-
clude amounts if you adopted a child
with special needs and the adoption be-
came final in 2024.
TIP
CAUTION
!
Line 1g
Wages From Form 8919,
Line 6
Enter the total of your wages from Form
8919, line 6.
Line 1h
Other Earned Income
If you received scholarship or
fellowship grants that were not
reported to you on Form W-2,
report  these  amounts  on  Schedule  1,
line 8r. See the instructions for Schedule
1, line 8r.
The following types of income must
be included in the total on line 1h.
•  Strike or lockout benefits (other
than bona fide gifts).
•  Excess  elective  deferrals.  The
amount  deferred  should  be  shown  in
box 12 of your Form W-2, and the “Re-
tirement plan” box in box 13 should be
checked. If the total amount you (or
your spouse if filing jointly) deferred for
2024  under  all  plans  was  more  than
$23,000 (excluding catch-up contribu-
tions, as explained later), include the ex-
cess on line 1h. This limit is (a) general-
ly, $16,000 if you have only SIMPLE
plans, or (b) $26,000 for section 403(b)
plans if you qualify for the 15-year rule
in Pub. 571. Although designated Roth
contributions are subject to this limit,
don’t include the excess attributable to
such contributions on line 1h. They are
already included as income in box 1 of
your Form W-2.
A higher limit of $17,600 may apply
to participants in certain SIMPLE plans.
A higher limit may also apply to partici-
pants in section 457(b) deferred com-
pensation plans for the 3 years before re-
tirement age. Contact your plan adminis-
trator for more information.
If you were age 50 or older at the end
of 2024, your employer may have al-
lowed an additional deferral (catch-up
contributions) of up to $7,500 (general-
ly, $3,500 for section 401(k)(11) and
SIMPLE plans). This additional deferral
amount isn't subject to the overall limit
on elective deferrals.
A higher catch-up contribution limit
of $3,850 may apply to participants in
TIP
24  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 25 ===
certain  SIMPLE  plans.  Contact  your
plan administrator for more information.
You can't deduct the amount de-
ferred. It isn't included as in-
come in box 1 of your Form
W-2.
•  Disability pensions shown on
Form 1099-R if you haven’t reached the
minimum retirement age set by your
employer. But see  Insurance Premiums
for Retired Public Safety Officers  in the
instructions for lines 5a and 5b.
Disability pensions received after you
reach minimum retirement age and other
payments shown on Form 1099-R (other
than payments from an IRA) are
reported on lines 5a and 5b. Payments
from an IRA are reported on lines 4a
and 4b.
•  Corrective distributions from a
retirement plan shown on Form 1099-R
of excess elective deferrals and excess
contributions (plus earnings). But don’t
include distributions from an IRA on
line 1h. Instead, report distributions
from an IRA on lines 4a and 4b.
Line 1i
Nontaxable Combat Pay
Election
If you elect to include your nontaxable
combat pay in your earned income when
figuring the EIC, enter the amount on
line 1i. See the instructions for line 27.
Were You a Statutory
Employee?
If you were a statutory employee, the
“Statutory employee” box in box 13 of
your Form W-2 should be checked. Stat-
utory employees include full-time life
insurance salespeople and certain agent
or commission drivers, certain traveling
salespeople, and certain homeworkers.
Statutory employees report the amount
shown in box 1 of Form W-2 on a
Schedule C along with any related busi-
ness expenses.
Missing or Incorrect
Form W-2?
Your employer is required to provide or
send Form W-2 to you no later than
January 31, 2025. If you don’t receive it
by early February, use  Tax Topic 154  to
CAUTION
!
find out what to do. Even if you don’t
get a Form W-2, you must still report
your earnings. If you lose your Form
W-2 or it is incorrect, ask your employer
for a new one.
Line 2a
Tax-Exempt Interest
If you received any tax-exempt interest
(including any tax-exempt original issue
discount (OID)), such as from municipal
bonds, each payer should send you a
Form 1099-INT or a Form 1099-OID. In
general, your tax-exempt stated interest
should  be  shown  in  box  8  of  Form
1099-INT  or,  for  a  tax-exempt  OID
bond, in box 2 of Form 1099-OID, and
your tax-exempt OID should be shown
in box 11 of Form 1099-OID. Enter the
total on line 2a. However, if you ac-
quired a tax-exempt bond at a premium,
only report the net amount of tax-ex-
empt interest on line 2a (that is, the ex-
cess of the tax-exempt interest received
during the year over the amortized bond
premium for the year). Also, if you ac-
quired a tax-exempt OID bond at an ac-
quisition premium, only report the net
amount of tax-exempt OID on line 2a
(that is, the excess of tax-exempt OID
for the year over the amortized acquisi-
tion premium for the year). See Pub. 550
for more information about OID, bond
premium, and acquisition premium.
Also  include  on  line  2a  any  ex-
empt-interest dividends from a mutual
fund or other regulated investment com-
pany. This amount should be shown in
box 12 of Form 1099-DIV.
Don’t include interest earned on your
IRA, health savings account, Archer or
Medicare Advantage MSA, or Coverdell
education savings account.
Don’t include any amounts re-
lated to the forgiveness of PPP
Loans on this line.
Line 2b
Taxable Interest
Each payer should send you a Form
1099-INT  or  Form  1099-OID.  Enter
your  total  taxable  interest  income  on
line 2b. But you must fill in and attach
Schedule B if the total is over $1,500 or
any of the other conditions listed at the
CAUTION
!
beginning of the Schedule B instructions
applies to you.
For more details about reporting taxa-
ble interest, including market discount
on bonds and adjustments for amortiza-
ble bond premium or acquisition premi-
um, see Pub. 550.
Interest credited in 2024 on deposits
that you couldn't withdraw because of
the bankruptcy or insolvency of the fi-
nancial institution may not have to be
included in your 2024 income. For de-
tails, see Pub. 550.
If  you  get  a  2024  Form
1099-INT for U.S. savings bond
interest that includes amounts
you reported before 2024, see Pub. 550.
Line 3a
Qualified Dividends
Enter your total qualified dividends on
line 3a. Qualified dividends are also in-
cluded in the ordinary dividend total re-
quired to be shown on line 3b. Qualified
dividends are eligible for a lower tax
rate than other ordinary income. Gener-
ally,  these  dividends  are  shown  in
box 1b of Form(s) 1099-DIV. See Pub.
550 for the definition of qualified divi-
dends if you received dividends not re-
ported on Form 1099-DIV.
Exception.  Some dividends may be re-
ported as qualified dividends in box 1b
of Form 1099-DIV but aren't qualified
dividends. These include:
•  Dividends you received as a nomi-
nee. See the Schedule B instructions.
•  Dividends  you  received  on  any
share of stock that you held for less than
61 days during the 121-day period that
began 60 days before the ex-dividend
date. The ex-dividend date is the first
date following the declaration of a divi-
dend on which the purchaser of a stock
isn't entitled to receive the next dividend
payment. When counting the number of
days you held the stock, include the day
you disposed of the stock but not the day
you acquired it. See the examples that
follow. Also, when counting the number
of days you held the stock, you can't
count certain days during which your
risk of loss was diminished. See Pub.
550 for more details.
•  Dividends attributable to periods
totaling more than 366 days that you re-
ceived on any share of preferred stock
TIP
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  25

=== PAGE 26 ===
held for less than 91 days during the
181-day period that began 90 days be-
fore the ex-dividend date. When count-
ing the number of days you held the
stock, you can't count certain days dur-
ing which your risk of loss was dimin-
ished. See Pub. 550 for more details.
Preferred dividends attributable to peri-
ods totaling less than 367 days are sub-
ject to the 61-day holding period rule
just described.
•  Dividends on any share of stock to
the extent that you are under an obliga-
tion (including a short sale) to make re-
lated payments with respect to positions
in substantially similar or related proper-
ty.
•  Payments in lieu of dividends, but
only if you know or have reason to
know that the payments aren't qualified
dividends.
•  Dividends from a corporation that
first became a surrogate foreign corpora-
tion after December 22, 2017, other than
a foreign corporation that is treated as a
domestic  corporation  under  section
7874(b).
Example 1.  You bought 5,000 shares
of XYZ Corp. common stock on July 8.
XYZ Corp. paid a cash dividend of 10
cents per share. The ex-dividend date
was July 16. Your Form 1099-DIV from
XYZ Corp. shows $500 in box 1a (ordi-
nary dividends) and in box 1b (qualified
dividends). However, you sold the 5,000
shares  on  August  11.  You  held  your
shares of XYZ Corp. for only 34 days of
the 121-day period (from July 9 through
August 11). The 121-day period began
on May 17 (60 days before the ex-divi-
dend date) and ended on September 14.
You have no qualified dividends from
XYZ Corp. because you held the XYZ
stock for less than 61 days.
Example 2.  The facts are the same as
in  Example 1  except that you bought the
stock on July 15 (the day before the
ex-dividend  date),  and  you  sold  the
stock on September 16. You held the
stock for 63 days (from July 16 through
September 16). The $500 of qualified
dividends  shown  in  box  1b  of  Form
1099-DIV are all qualified dividends be-
cause you held the stock for 61 days of
the  121-day  period  (from  July  16
through September 14).
Example  3.  You  bought  10,000
shares of ABC Mutual Fund common
stock on July 8. ABC Mutual Fund paid
a cash dividend of 10 cents a share. The
ex-dividend date was July 16. The ABC
Mutual Fund advises you that the part of
the dividend eligible to be treated as
qualified  dividends  equals  2  cents  a
share. Your Form 1099-DIV from ABC
Mutual Fund shows total ordinary divi-
dends of $1,000 and qualified dividends
of $200. However, you sold the 10,000
shares on August 11. You have no quali-
fied dividends from ABC Mutual Fund
because you held the ABC Mutual Fund
stock for less than 61 days.
Use  the  Qualified  Dividends
and  Capital  Gain  Tax  Work-
sheet or the Schedule D Tax
Worksheet, whichever applies, to figure
your tax. See the instructions for line 16
for details.
Line 3b
Ordinary Dividends
Each payer should send you a Form
1099-DIV. Enter your total ordinary div-
idends on line 3b. This amount should
be  shown  in  box  1a  of  Form(s)
1099-DIV.
You must fill in and attach Sched-
ule B if the total is over $1,500 or you
received, as a nominee, ordinary divi-
dends that actually belong to someone
else.
Nondividend Distributions
Some distributions are a return of your
cost  (or  other  basis).  They  won't  be
taxed until you recover your cost (or
other basis). You must reduce your cost
(or other basis) by these distributions.
After you get back all of your cost (or
other basis), you must report these dis-
tributions as capital gains on Form 8949.
For details, see Pub. 550.
Dividends on insurance policies
are a partial return of the pre-
miums you paid. Don’t report
them as dividends. Include them in in-
come on Schedule 1, line 8z, only if they
exceed the total of all net premiums you
paid for the contract.
Lines 4a and 4b
IRA Distributions
You  should  receive  a  Form  1099-R
showing the total amount of any distri-
TIP
TIP
bution from your IRA before income tax
or other deductions were withheld. This
amount should be shown in box 1 of
Form 1099-R. Unless otherwise noted in
the line 4a and 4b instructions, an IRA
includes a traditional IRA (which in-
cludes a traditional IRA that receives
contributions from a simplified employ-
ee  pension  (SEP)  arrangement),  Roth
IRA (which includes a Roth IRA that re-
ceives  contributions  from  a  SEP  ar-
rangement), and a SIMPLE IRA (a SIM-
PLE IRA may either be a traditional
SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIMPLE IRA).
Attach Form(s) 1099-R to Form
1040 or 1040-SR if any federal
income tax was withheld.
For purposes of these Excep-
tions, Roth IRA includes a Roth
SIMPLE IRA.
Exception 1.  Enter the total distribution
on line 4a if you rolled over part or all of
the distribution from one:
•  Roth IRA to another Roth IRA, or
•  IRA (other than a Roth IRA) to a
qualified  plan  or  another  IRA  (other
than a Roth IRA).
Also enter “Rollover” next to line 4b.
If the total distribution was rolled over,
enter -0- on line 4b. If the total distribu-
tion wasn't rolled over, enter the part not
rolled over on line 4b unless  Exception 2
applies to the part not rolled over. Gen-
erally, a rollover must be made within
60 days after the day you received the
distribution. For more details on roll-
overs, see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
If you rolled over the distribution into
a qualified plan or you made the rollover
in 2025, include a statement explaining
what you did.
Exception 2.  If any of the following ap-
ply, enter the total distribution on line 4a
and see Form 8606 and its instructions
to figure the amount to enter on line 4b.
1.  You received a distribution from
an IRA (other than a Roth IRA) and you
made nondeductible contributions to any
of your traditional IRAs for 2024 or an
earlier year. If you made nondeductible
contributions to these IRAs for 2024, al-
so see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
2.  You received a distribution from
a Roth IRA. But if either (a) or (b) be-
low applies, enter -0- on line 4b; you
don’t have to see Form 8606 or its in-
structions.
TIP
TIP
26  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 27 ===
a.  Distribution code T is shown in
box 7 of Form 1099-R and you made a
contribution (including a conversion) to
a Roth IRA for 2018 or an earlier year.
b.  Distribution code Q is shown in
box 7 of Form 1099-R.
3.  You converted part or all of a tra-
ditional IRA or traditional SIMPLE IRA
to a Roth IRA in 2024.
4.  You had a 2023 or 2024 IRA con-
tribution returned to you, with the rela-
ted earnings or less any loss, by the due
date (including extensions) of your tax
return for that year.
5.  You made excess contributions to
your IRA for an earlier year and had
them returned to you in 2024.
6.  You recharacterized part or all of
a contribution to a Roth IRA as a contri-
bution to a traditional IRA, or vice ver-
sa.
Exception 3.  If all or part of the distri-
bution is a qualified charitable distribu-
tion (QCD), enter the total distribution
on line 4a. If the total amount distributed
is a QCD, enter -0- on line 4b. If only
part of the distribution is a QCD, enter
the part that is not a QCD on line 4b un-
less  Exception 2  applies to that part. En-
ter “QCD” next to line 4b.
A QCD is a distribution made direct-
ly by the trustee of your IRA (other than
an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an
organization eligible to receive tax-de-
ductible contributions (with certain ex-
ceptions). You must have been at least
age 70 1/2 when the distribution was
made.
Generally, your total QCDs for the
year can't be more than $105,000. This
includes any amount (up to $53,000) of
a one-time QCD to a split-interest entity
(SIE). If you file a joint return, the same
rules apply to your spouse. The amount
of the QCD is limited to the amount that
would otherwise be included in your in-
come. If your IRA includes nondeducti-
ble contributions, the distribution is first
considered to be paid out of otherwise
taxable  income.  If  you  make  the
one-time QCD to an SIE, you must at-
tach a statement to your return. See Pub.
590-B for details on QCDs, including
the information you must include on the
attachment for QCDs to an SIE.
You  can't  claim  a  charitable
contribution deduction for any
QCD not included in your in-
come.
Exception 4.  If all or part of the distri-
bution is a health savings account (HSA)
funding distribution (HFD), enter the to-
tal distribution on line 4a. If the total
amount distributed is an HFD and you
elect to exclude it from income, enter -0-
on line 4b. If only part of the distribu-
tion is an HFD and you elect to exclude
that part from income, enter the part that
isn't an HFD on line 4b unless  Exception
2  applies to that part. Enter “HFD” next
to line 4b.
An HFD is a distribution made di-
rectly by the trustee of your IRA (other
than an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA)
to your HSA. If eligible, you can gener-
ally elect to exclude an HFD from your
income once in your lifetime. You can't
exclude more than the limit on HSA
contributions or more than the amount
that would otherwise be included in your
income. If your IRA includes nondeduc-
tible contributions, the HFD is first con-
sidered to be paid out of otherwise taxa-
ble income. See Pub. 969 for details.
The amount of an HFD reduces
the amount you can contribute
to your HSA for the year. If you
fail to maintain eligibility for an HSA
for the 12 months following the month of
the HFD, you may have to report the
HFD as income and pay an additional
tax. See Form 8889, Part III.
More than one exception applies.  If
more than one exception applies, include
a statement showing the amount of each
exception, instead of making an entry
next to line 4b. For example: “Line 4b –
$1,000 Rollover and $500 HFD.” But
you don’t need to attach a statement if
only  Exception 2  and one other excep-
tion apply.
More than one distribution.  If you (or
your spouse if filing jointly) received
more than one distribution, figure the
taxable amount of each distribution and
enter the total of the taxable amounts on
line 4b. Enter the total amount of those
distributions on line 4a.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
You must start receiving at least
a minimum amount from your
traditional IRA by April 1 of the
year following the year you reach age
73. If you don’t receive the minimum dis-
tribution amount, you may have to pay
an additional tax on the amount that
should have been distributed. For de-
tails, including how to figure the mini-
mum  required  distribution,  see  Pub.
590-B.
You may have to pay an addi-
tional tax if you received an
early  distribution  from  your
IRA and the total wasn't rolled over. See
the instructions for Schedule 2, line 8,
for details.
More information.  For more informa-
tion about IRAs, see Pub. 590-A and
Pub. 590-B.
Lines 5a and 5b
Pensions and Annuities
You  should  receive  a  Form  1099-R
showing the total amount of your pen-
sion and annuity payments before in-
come tax or other deductions were with-
held. This amount should be shown in
box 1 of Form 1099-R. Pension and an-
nuity  payments  include  distributions
from 401(k), 403(b), and governmental
457(b) plans. Rollovers and lump-sum
distributions are explained later. Don’t
include the following payments on lines
5a  and  5b.  Instead,  report  them  on
line 1h.
•  Disability pensions received before
you reach the minimum retirement age
set by your employer.
•  Corrective distributions (including
any earnings) of excess elective defer-
rals or other excess contributions to re-
tirement plans. The plan must advise
you of the year(s) the distributions are
includible in income.
Attach Form(s) 1099-R to Form
1040 or 1040-SR if any federal
income tax was withheld.
Fully Taxable Pensions and
Annuities
Your payments are fully taxable if (a)
you didn't contribute to the cost (see
Cost,  later) of your pension or annuity,
or (b) you got your entire cost back tax
free before 2024. But see  Insurance Pre-
TIP
CAUTION
!
TIP
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  27

=== PAGE 28 ===
miums for Retired Public Safety Offi-
cers , later. If your pension or annuity is
fully taxable, enter the total pension or
annuity  payments  (from  Form(s)
1099-R, box 1) on line 5b; don’t make
an entry on line 5a.
Fully taxable pensions and annuities
also  include  military  retirement  pay
shown on Form 1099-R. For details on
military  disability  pensions,  see  Pub.
525.  If  you  received  a  Form
RRB-1099-R, see Pub. 575 to find out
how to report your benefits.
Partially Taxable Pensions and
Annuities
Enter the total pension or annuity pay-
ments (from Form 1099-R, box 1) on
line 5a. If your Form 1099-R doesn't
show the taxable amount, you must use
the General Rule explained in Pub. 939
to figure the taxable part to enter on
line 5b. But if your annuity starting date
(defined later) was after July 1, 1986,
see  Simplified Method , later, to find out
if you must use that method to figure the
taxable part.
You can ask the IRS to figure the tax-
able part for you for a $1,000 fee. For
details, see Pub. 939.
If your Form 1099-R shows a taxable
amount, you can report that amount on
line 5b. But you may be able to report a
lower taxable amount by using the Gen-
eral Rule or the Simplified Method or if
the exclusion for retired public safety of-
ficers, discussed next, applies.
Insurance Premiums for Retired
Public Safety Officers
If you are an eligible retired public safe-
ty officer (law enforcement officer, fire-
fighter, chaplain, or member of a rescue
squad or ambulance crew who is retired
because  of  disability  or  because  you
reached normal retirement age), you can
elect to exclude from income distribu-
tions made from your eligible retirement
plan that are used to pay the premiums
for coverage by an accident or health
plan or a long-term care insurance con-
tract. The premiums can be for coverage
for you, your spouse, or dependents. The
distribution must be from the plan main-
tained by the employer from which you
retired as a public safety officer. The
distribution can be made directly from
the plan to the provider of the accident
or health plan or long-term care insur-
ance contract, or the distribution can be
made to you to pay to the provider of the
accident or health plan or long-term care
insurance  contract.  You  can  exclude
from income the smaller of the amount
of the premiums paid or $3,000. You can
make this election only for amounts that
would otherwise be included in your in-
come. The amount excluded from your
income can’t be used to claim a medical
expense deduction.
An eligible retirement plan is a gov-
ernmental plan that is a qualified trust or
a section 403(a), 403(b), or 457(b) plan.
You can exclude from income
only the smaller of the amount
of the premiums paid or $3,000.
This is true if the distribution was made
directly from the plan to the provider of
the accident or health plan or long-term
care insurance contract or if the distri-
bution was made to you and you paid
the provider of the accident or health
plan or long-term care insurance con-
tract. If you received a distribution from
your eligible retirement plan, and you
used part of that distribution to pay pre-
miums for an accident or health plan or
long-term care insurance contract, you
can still exclude from income only the
smaller of the amount of the premiums
paid or $3,000. The rest of the distribu-
tion is taxable to you and must be repor-
ted on line 5b.
If you make this election, reduce the
otherwise taxable amount of your pen-
sion or annuity by the amount excluded.
The amount shown in box 2a of Form
1099-R doesn't reflect the exclusion. Re-
port your total distributions on line 5a
and the taxable amount on line 5b. Enter
“PSO” next to line 5b.
If you are retired on disability and re-
porting  your  disability  pension  on
line 1h, include only the taxable amount
on that line and enter “PSO” and the
amount excluded on the dotted line next
to line 1h.
Payments when you are disabled.  If
you receive payments from a retirement
or profit-sharing plan that does not pro-
vide  for  disability  retirement,  do  not
treat those payments as disability pay-
ments. The payments must be reported
as a pension or annuity.
You must include in your income any
amounts  that  you  received  that  you
CAUTION
!
would have received in retirement had
you not become disabled as a result of a
terrorist attack. Include in your income
any  payments  you  receive  from  a
401(k), pension, or other retirement plan
to the extent that you would have re-
ceived the amount at the same or later
time regardless of whether you had be-
come disabled.
Example.  You  were  a  contractor
who was disabled as a direct result of
participating in efforts to clean up the
World Trade Center and you are eligible
for compensation by the September 11
Victim Compensation Fund. You began
receiving a disability pension at age 55
when you could no longer work due to
your disability. Under your pension plan
you are entitled to an early retirement
benefit of $2,500 a month at age 55. If
you wait until age 62, the normal retire-
ment age under the plan, you would be
entitled to a normal retirement benefit of
$3,000 a month. The pension plan pro-
vides that a participant who retires early
on account of disability is entitled to re-
ceive the participant's normal retirement
benefit,  which  in  your  case  equals
$3,000 a month. Until you turn age 62,
you can exclude $500 of your monthly
retirement benefit from income (the dif-
ference  between  the  early  retirement
benefit and the normal retirement bene-
fit, $3,000 - $2,500) received on account
of disability. You must report the re-
maining $2,500 of monthly pension ben-
efit as taxable. For each month after you
turn age 62, you must report the full
amount of the monthly pension benefit
($3,000 a month) as taxable.
Simplified Method
You must use the Simplified Method if
either of the following applies.
1.  Your annuity starting date was af-
ter July 1, 1986, and you used this meth-
od last year to figure the taxable part.
2.  Your annuity starting date was af-
ter November 18, 1996, and both of the
following apply.
a.  The payments are from a quali-
fied employee plan, a qualified employ-
ee annuity, or a tax-sheltered annuity.
b.  On your annuity starting date, ei-
ther you were under age 75 or the num-
ber of years of guaranteed payments was
fewer than 5. See Pub. 575 for the defi-
nition of guaranteed payments.
28  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 29 ===
Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b  Keep for Your Records
Before you begin:  If you are the beneficiary of a deceased employee or former employee who died  before  August 21, 1996, include
any death benefit exclusion that you are entitled to (up to $5,000) in the amount entered on line 2 below.
More than one pension or annuity.  If you had more than one partially taxable pension or annuity, figure the taxable part of each separately. Enter
the total of the taxable parts on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received in 2024 on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 5a.
1.
1.
2.  2.
Note.  If you completed this worksheet last year, skip line 3 and enter the amount from line 4
of last year’s worksheet on line 4 below (even if the amount of your pension or annuity has
changed). Otherwise, go to line 3.
3.  Enter the appropriate number from  Table 1  below.  But  if your annuity starting date was  after
1997  and  the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate
number from  Table 2  below  3.
4.  Divide line 2 by the number on line 3  4.
5.  Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s payments were made. If your
annuity starting date was  before  1987, skip lines 6 and 7 and enter this amount on line 8.
Otherwise, go to line 6  5.
6.  Enter the amount, if any, recovered tax free in years after 1986. If you completed this
worksheet last year, enter the amount from line 10 of last year’s worksheet  6.
7.  Subtract line 6 from line 2  7.
8.  Enter the  smaller  of line 5 or line 7  8.
9.  Taxable amount.  Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than zero. Also, enter this amount on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. If your Form 1099-R shows a larger amount, use the amount on this line instead of the
amount from Form 1099-R. If you are a retired public safety officer, see  Insurance Premiums for Retired Public
Safety Officers  before entering an amount on line 5b  9.
10.  Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
Yes.  STOP  Do not complete the rest of this worksheet.
No.  Add lines 6 and 8. This is the  amount you have recovered tax free  through 2024. You will need this
number if you need to fill out this worksheet next year  10.
Table 1 for Line 3 Above
AND your annuity starting date was—
IF the age at annuity starting
date was . . .
before  November 19, 1996,
enter on line 3 . . .
after  November 18, 1996,
enter on line 3 . . .
360
310
260
210
160
300
260
240
170
120
55 or under
56–60
61–65
66–70
71 or older
Table 2 for Line 3 Above
IF the combined ages at annuity
starting date were . . .  THEN enter on line 3 . . .
410
360
310
260
210
110 or under
111–120
121–130
131–140
141 or older
11.
11.
Balance of cost to be recovered.  Subtract line 10 from line 2. If zero, you won’t have to complete this
worksheet next year. The payments you receive next year will generally be fully taxable
Enter the total pension or annuity payments from Form 1099-R, box 1. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 5a
Enter your cost in the plan at the annuity starting date
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  29

=== PAGE 30 ===
If you must use the Simplified Meth-
od,  complete  the  Simplified  Method
Worksheet in these instructions to figure
the taxable part of your pension or annu-
ity. For more details on the Simplified
Method, see Pub. 575 (or Pub. 721 for
U.S. Civil Service retirement benefits).
If you received U.S. Civil Serv-
ice retirement benefits and you
chose  the  alternative  annuity
option, see Pub. 721 to figure the taxa-
ble part of your annuity. Do not use the
Simplified Method Worksheet in these
instructions.
Annuity Starting Date
Your annuity starting date is the later of
the first day of the first period for which
you received a payment or the date the
plan's obligations became fixed.
Age (or Combined Ages) at
Annuity Starting Date
If you are the retiree, use your age on
the annuity starting date. If you are the
survivor of a retiree, use the retiree's age
on their annuity starting date. But if your
annuity starting date was after 1997 and
the payments are for your life and that of
your  beneficiary,  use  your  combined
ages on the annuity starting date.
If you are the beneficiary of an em-
ployee who died, see Pub. 575. If there
is more than one beneficiary, see Pub.
575 or Pub. 721 to figure each benefi-
ciary's taxable amount.
Cost
Your cost is generally your net invest-
ment in the plan as of the annuity start-
ing date. It doesn't include pre-tax con-
tributions. Your net investment may be
shown in box 9b of Form 1099-R.
Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distri-
bution of cash or other assets from one
retirement plan that is contributed to an-
other plan within 60 days of receiving
the distribution. However, a rollover to a
Roth IRA or a designated Roth account
is generally not a tax-free distribution.
Use lines 5a and 5b to report a rollover,
including  a  direct  rollover,  from  one
qualified employer's plan to another or
to an IRA.
CAUTION
!
Enter on line 5a the distribution from
Form 1099-R, box 1. From this amount,
subtract  any  contributions  (usually
shown in box 5) that were taxable to you
when made. From that result, subtract
the amount of the rollover. Enter the re-
maining amount on line 5b. If the re-
maining amount is zero and you have no
other distribution to report on line 5b,
enter -0- on line 5b. Also enter "Roll-
over" next to line 5b.
See Pub. 575 for more details on roll-
overs, including special rules that apply
to rollovers from designated Roth ac-
counts, partial rollovers of property, and
distributions  under  qualified  domestic
relations orders.
Lump-Sum Distributions
If you received a lump-sum distribution
from a profit-sharing or retirement plan,
your Form 1099-R should have the "To-
tal distribution" box in box 2b checked.
You may owe an additional tax if you re-
ceived an early distribution from a quali-
fied retirement plan and the total amount
wasn't rolled over. For details, see the
instructions for Schedule 2, line 8.
Enter the total distribution on line 5a
and the taxable part on line 5b. For de-
tails, see Pub. 575.
If you or the plan participant
was  born  before  January  2,
1936, you could pay less tax on
the distribution. See Form 4972.
Lines 6a, 6b, and 6c
Lines 6a and 6b
Social Security Benefits
You should receive a Form SSA-1099
showing in box 3 the total social securi-
ty benefits paid to you. Box 4 will show
the amount of any benefits you repaid in
2024. If you received railroad retirement
benefits treated as social security, you
should receive a Form RRB-1099.
Use  the  Social  Security  Benefits
Worksheet in these instructions to see if
any of your benefits are taxable.
Exception.  Do not use the Social Se-
curity Benefits Worksheet in these in-
structions if any of the following ap-
plies.
•  You made contributions to a tradi-
tional IRA for 2024 and you or your
spouse  were  covered  by  a  retirement
TIP
plan at work or through self-employ-
ment.  Instead,  use  the  worksheets  in
Pub. 590-A to see if any of your social
security benefits are taxable and to fig-
ure your IRA deduction.
•  You repaid any benefits in 2024
and your total repayments (box 4) were
more than your total benefits for 2024
(box 3). None of your benefits are taxa-
ble for 2024. Also, if your total repay-
ments in 2024 exceed your total benefits
received in 2024 by more than $3,000,
you may be able to take an itemized de-
duction or a credit for part of the excess
repayments if they were for benefits you
included in income in an earlier year.
For more details, see Pub. 915.
•  You  file  Form  2555,  4563,  or
8815, or you exclude employer-provided
adoption benefits or income from sour-
ces within Puerto Rico. Instead, use the
worksheet in Pub. 915.
Social  security  information.
Social  security  beneficiaries
can now get a variety of infor-
mation from the SSA website with a  my
Social Security  account, including get-
ting a replacement Form SSA - 1099 if
needed. For more information and to set
up  an  account,  go  to  SSA.gov/
myaccount .
Disability payments.  Don’t include in
your  income  any  disability  payments
(including Social Security Disability In-
surance (SSDI) payments) you receive
for injuries incurred as a direct result of
a  terrorist  attack  directed  against  the
United States (or its allies), whether out-
side or within the United States. In the
case of the September 11 attacks, inju-
ries eligible for coverage by the Septem-
ber 11 Victim Compensation Fund are
treated as incurred as a direct result of
the attack. If these payments are incor-
rectly  reported  as  taxable  on  Form
SSA-1099, don't include the nontaxable
portion of income on your tax return.
You may receive a notice from the IRS
regarding the omitted payments. Follow
the instructions in the notice to explain
that the excluded payments aren't taxa-
ble. For more information about these
payments, see Pub. 3920.
Example.  You  were  a  firefighter
who was disabled as a direct result of
the September 11 terrorist attack on the
World Trade Center. You began receiv-
ing SSDI benefits at age 54. Your full
retirement age for social security retire-
TIP
30  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 31 ===
ment benefits is age 66. Your birthday is
April 25. In the year you turned age 66,
you received $1,500 per month in bene-
fits from the SSA (for a total of $18,000
for the year). Because you became eligi-
ble for a full retirement benefit in May,
the month after you turned age 66, you
can  exclude  only  4  months  (January
through April) of your annual benefit
from income ($6,000). You must report
the remaining $12,000 on line 6a. You
must also complete the Social Security
Benefits Worksheet to find out if any
part of the $12,000 is taxable.
Form RRB-1099.  If you need a
replacement  Form  RRB-1099,
call  the  Railroad  Retirement
Board  at  877-772-5772  or  go  to
www.rrb.gov .
Accrued leave payment.  If you retire
on  disability,  any  lump-sum  payment
you receive for accrued annual leave is a
salary payment. The payment is not a
disability payment. Include it in your in-
come in the tax year you receive it.
Line 6c
Check the box on line 6c if you elect to
use the lump-sum election method for
your benefits. If any of your benefits are
taxable  for  2024  and  they  include  a
lump-sum benefit payment that was for
an earlier year, you may be able to re-
duce  the  taxable  amount  with  the
lump-sum election. See  Lump-Sum Elec-
tion  in Pub. 915 for details.
Line 7
Capital Gain or (Loss)
If you sold a capital asset, such as a
stock or bond, you must complete and
attach Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Exception  1.  You  don’t  have  to  file
Form 8949 or Schedule D if you aren’t
deferring any capital gain by investing
in a qualified opportunity fund and both
of the following apply.
1.  You have no capital losses, and
your only capital gains are capital gain
distributions  from  Form(s)  1099-DIV,
box 2a (or substitute statements); and
2.  None of the Form(s) 1099-DIV
(or  substitute  statements)  have  an
amount in box 2b (unrecaptured section
1250 gain), box 2c (section 1202 gain),
or box 2d (collectibles (28%) gain).
TIP
Exception 2.  You must file Schedule D
but generally don’t have to file Form
8949 if  Exception 1  doesn't apply, you
aren’t deferring any capital gain by in-
vesting in a qualified opportunity fund
or terminating deferral from an invest-
ment in a qualified opportunity fund,
and your only capital gains and losses
are:
•  Capital gain distributions;
•  A  capital  loss  carryover  from
2023;
•  A gain from Form 2439 or 6252 or
Part I of Form 4797;
•  A gain or loss from Form 4684,
6781, or 8824;
•  A gain or loss from a partnership,
S corporation, estate, or trust; or
•  Gains and losses from transactions
for which you received a Form 1099-B
(or substitute statement) that shows ba-
sis was reported to the IRS, the QOF
box in box 3 isn’t checked, and you
don’t need to make any adjustments in
column (g) of Form 8949 or enter any
codes in column (f) of Form 8949.
If  Exception 1  applies, enter your to-
tal  capital  gain  distributions  (from
box 2a of Form(s) 1099-DIV) on line 7
and check the box on that line. If you re-
ceived  capital  gain  distributions  as  a
nominee (that is, they were paid to you
but actually belong to someone else), re-
port on line 7 only the amount that be-
longs to you. Include a statement show-
ing the full amount you received and the
amount you received as a nominee. See
the Schedule B instructions for filing re-
quirements  for  Forms  1099-DIV  and
1096.
If you don’t have to file Sched-
ule D, use the Qualified Divi-
dends  and  Capital  Gain  Tax
Worksheet in the line 16 instructions to
figure your tax.
Total Income and
Adjusted Gross
Income
Line 10
Enter any adjustments to income from
Schedule 1, line 26, on line 10.
TIP
Tax and Credits
Line 12
Itemized Deductions or
Standard Deduction
In most cases, your federal income tax
will be less if you take the larger of your
itemized deductions or standard deduc-
tion.
Itemized Deductions
To figure your itemized deductions, fill
in Schedule A.
If you made a section 962 elec-
tion and are taking a deduction
under section 250 with respect
to any income inclusions under section
951A,  don't  report  the  deduction  on
line 12. Instead, report the tax with re-
spect to a section 962 election on line 16
and include in the statement required by
line 16 how you figured the section 250
deduction.
Standard Deduction
Most Form 1040 filers can find their
standard  deduction  by  looking  at  the
amounts listed to the left of line 12.
Most Form 1040-SR filers can find their
standard deduction by using the chart on
the last page of Form 1040-SR.
Exception  1—Dependent.  If  you
checked the “Someone can claim you as
a dependent” box, or if you’re filing
jointly and you checked the “Someone
can claim your spouse as a dependent”
box, use the Standard Deduction Work-
sheet  for  Dependents  to  figure  your
standard deduction.
Someone  claims  you  or  your
spouse as a dependent if they
list your or your spouse's name
and SSN in the  Dependents  section of
their return.
Exception 2—Born before January 2,
1960, or blind.  If you checked any of
the following boxes, figure your stand-
ard deduction using the Standard Deduc-
tion Chart for People Who Were Born
Before January 2, 1960, or Were Blind if
you are filing Form 1040 or by using the
chart on the last page of Form 1040-SR.
CAUTION
!
TIP
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  31

=== PAGE 32 ===
Social Security Benefits Worksheet—Lines 6a and 6b  Keep for Your Records
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule
1, line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, enter “D” to
the right of the word “benefits” on line 6a. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Be sure you have read the  Exception  in the line 6a and 6b instructions to see if you can use this
worksheet instead of a publication to find out if any of your benefits are taxable.
Before you begin:
1.  Enter the total amount from  box 5  of  all  your  Forms SSA-1099  and
RRB-1099 . Also enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 6a  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Combine the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b, 3b, 4b, 5b, 7, and 8  . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Enter the amount, if any, from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Combine lines 2, 3, and 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5.
6.  Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and 25  . . . . . . . . . . .  6.
7.  Is the amount on line 6 less than the amount on line 5?
No.
STOP
 None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b.
Yes.  Subtract line 6 from line 5  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7.
8.  If you are:
•  Married filing jointly, enter $32,000
•  Single, head of household, qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you  lived apart  from your spouse for
all of 2024, enter $25,000  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8.
•  Married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at any time
in 2024, skip lines 8 through 15; multiply line 7 by 85% (0.85) and
enter the result on line 16. Then, go to line 17
9.  Is the amount on line 8 less than the amount on line 7?
No.
STOP
 None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married filing separately and you  lived apart  from
your spouse for all of 2024, be sure you entered “D” to the right of the word
“benefits” on line 6a.
Yes.  Subtract line 8 from line 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
10.  Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; $9,000 if single, head of household, qualifying surviving
spouse, or married filing separately and you  lived apart  from your spouse for all of 2024  . . . . . .  10.
11.  Subtract line 10 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0-  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11.
12.  Enter the  smaller  of line 9 or line 10  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12.
13.  Enter one-half of line 12  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13.
14.  Enter the  smaller  of line 2 or line 13  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14.
15.  Multiply line 11 by 85% (0.85). If line 11 is zero, enter -0-  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15.
16.  Add lines 14 and 15  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16.
17.  Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17.
18.  Taxable social security benefits.  Enter the  smaller  of line 16 or line 17. Also enter this amount
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18.
TIP
If any of your benefits are taxable for 2024  and  they include a lump-sum benefit payment that was for an earlier
year, you may be able to reduce the taxable amount. See  Lump-Sum Election  in Pub. 915 for details.
32  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 33 ===
•  You were born before January 2,
1960.
•  You are blind.
•  Spouse was born before January 2,
1960.
•  Spouse is blind.
Exception 3—Separate return or du-
al-status alien.  If you checked the box
labeled “Spouse itemizes on separate re-
turn or you were dual-status alien” on
the Spouse standard deduction line, your
standard deduction is zero, even if you
were born before January 2, 1960, or
were blind.
Exception 4—Increased standard de-
duction for net qualified disaster loss.
If you had a net qualified disaster loss
and you elect to increase your standard
deduction by the amount of your net
qualified disaster loss, use Schedule A
to figure your standard deduction. Quali-
fied disaster loss refers to losses arising
from certain disasters occurring in 2016
and subsequent years. See the Instruc-
tions for Form 4684 and Schedule A,
line 16, for more information.
Line 13
Qualified Business Income
Deduction (Section 199A
Deduction)
To figure your Qualified Business In-
come  Deduction,  use  Form  8995  or
Form 8995-A as applicable.
Use Form 8995 if:
•  You  have  qualified  business  in-
come,  qualified  REIT  dividends,  or
qualified PTP income (loss);
•  Your 2024 taxable income before
the qualified business income deduction
is  less  than  or  equal  to  $191,950
($383,900 if married filing jointly); and
•  You aren’t a patron in a specified
agricultural or horticultural cooperative.
If you don’t meet these requirements,
use Form 8995-A, Qualified Business
Income  Deduction.  Attach  whichever
form you use (Form 8995 or 8995-A) to
your  return.  See  the  Instructions  for
Forms 8995 and 8995-A for more infor-
mation for figuring and reporting your
qualified business income deduction.
Line 16
Tax
Include in the total on the entry space on
line 16 all of the following taxes that ap-
ply.
•  Tax on your taxable income. Fig-
ure the tax using one of the methods de-
scribed later.
•  Tax from Form(s) 8814 (relating to
the election to report child's interest or
dividends). Check the appropriate box.
•  Tax from Form 4972 (relating to
lump-sum distributions). Check the ap-
propriate box.
•  Tax with respect to a section 962
election (election made by a domestic
shareholder of a controlled foreign cor-
poration to be taxed at corporate rates)
reduced by the amount of any foreign
tax credits claimed on Form 1118. See
section 962 for details. Check box 3 and
enter the amount and “962” in the space
next  to  that  box.  Attach  a  statement
showing how you figured the tax.
•  Recapture of an education credit.
You may owe this tax if you claimed an
education credit in an earlier year, and
either tax-free educational assistance or
a refund of qualified expenses was re-
ceived in 2024 for the student. See Form
8863 for more details. Check box 3 and
enter  the  amount  and  “ECR”  in  the
space next to that box.
•  Any tax from Form 8621, line 16e,
relating to a section 1291 fund. Check
box 3 and enter the amount of the tax
and “1291TAX” in the space next to that
box.
•  Tax from Form 8978, line 14 (re-
lating to partner's audit liability under
section 6226). Check box 3 and enter the
amount of the liability and “Form 8978”
in the space next to that box. If the
amount on Form 8978, line 14, is nega-
tive, see the instructions for Schedule 3
(Form 1040), line 6l.
•  Triggering  event  under  section
965(i). If you had a triggering event un-
der section 965(i) during the year and
did not enter into a transfer agreement,
check box 3 and enter the amount of the
triggered deferred net 965 tax liability
and enter “965INC” on the line next to
that box.
Do you want the IRS to figure the
tax on your taxable income for you?
Yes.  See chapter 13 of Pub. 17 for
details, including who is eligible and
what to do. If you have paid too much,
we will send you a refund. If you didn't
pay enough, we will send you a bill.
No.  Use one of the following meth-
ods to figure your tax.
Tax Table or Tax Computation Work-
sheet.  If your taxable income is less
than $100,000, you must use the Tax Ta-
ble, later in these instructions, to figure
your tax. Be sure you use the correct
column.  If  your  taxable  income  is
$100,000 or more, use the Tax Compu-
tation Worksheet right after the Tax Ta-
ble.
However, don’t use the Tax Table or
Tax Computation Worksheet to figure
your tax if any of the following applies.
Form 8615.  Form 8615 must generally
be used to figure the tax on your un-
earned income over $2,600 if you are
under age 18, and in certain situations if
you are older.
You must file Form 8615 if you meet
all of the following conditions.
1.  You had more than $2,600 of un-
earned income (such as taxable interest,
ordinary dividends, or capital gains (in-
cluding capital gain distributions)).
2.  You are required to file a tax re-
turn.
3.  You were either:
a.  Under age 18 at the end of 2024,
b.  Age 18 at the end of 2024 and
didn't have earned income that was more
than half of your support, or
c.  A full-time student at least age 19
but under age 24 at the end of 2024 and
didn't have earned income that was more
than half of your support.
4.  At least one of your parents was
alive at the end of 2024.
5.  You don’t file a joint return in
2024.
A child born on January 1, 2007, is
considered to be age 18 at the end of
2024; a child born on January 1, 2006, is
considered to be age 19 at the end of
2024; and a child born on January 1,
2001, is considered to be age 24 at the
end of 2024.
Schedule D Tax Worksheet.  Use the
Schedule D Tax Worksheet in the In-
structions for Schedule D to figure the
amount  to  enter  on  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, line 16, if:
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  33

=== PAGE 34 ===
Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12  Keep for Your Records
Use this worksheet  only  if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent.
1.  Check if:  
You were born before January 2, 1960.
You are blind.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.
Spouse is blind.
Total number of boxes
checked  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
1.
2.  Is your  earned income * more than $850?
Yes.  Add $450 to your earned income. Enter the total.  
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
No.  Enter $1,300.
3.  Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
•  Single or married filing separately—$14,600
•  Married filing jointly—$29,200
•  Head of household—$21,900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Standard deduction.
a.  Enter the  smaller  of line 2 or line 3. If born after January 1, 1960, and not blind,  stop here  and enter this amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12. Otherwise, go to line 4b  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4a.
b.  If born before January 2, 1960, or blind, multiply the number on line 1 by $1,550 ($1,950 if single or head of
household)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4b.
c.  Add lines 4a and 4b. Enter the total here and on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4c.
* Earned income  includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, and other compensation received for personal services you performed. It also includes any taxable
scholarship or fellowship grant. Generally, your earned income is the total of the amount(s) you reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, and Schedule 1, lines 3, 6,
8r, 8t, and 8u minus the amount, if any, on Schedule 1, line 15.
Standard Deduction Chart for People Who Were Born Before January 2, 1960, or Were Blind
Don’t  use this chart if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent. Instead, use the worksheet above.
You were born before January 2, 1960.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.
You are blind.
Spouse is blind.
Enter the total number of boxes checked  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
▶
IF your filing
status is . . .
AND the number in
the box above is . . .
THEN your standard
deduction is . . .
Single  
1
2
$16,550
18,500
Married filing jointly
1
2
3
4
$30,750
32,300
33,850
35,400
Qualifying surviving spouse  
1
2
$30,750
32,300
Married filing separately*
1
2
3
4
$16,150
17,700
19,250
20,800
Head of household  
1
2
$23,850
25,800
* You can check the boxes for spouse if your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a
dependent on another person's return.
34  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 35 ===
•  You  have  to  file  Schedule  D,
line 18 or 19 of Schedule D is more than
zero, and lines 15 and 16 of Schedule D
are gains; or
•  You have to file Form 4952 and
you have an amount on line 4g, even if
you don’t need to file Schedule D.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you
must use the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet instead.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain
Tax Worksheet.  Use the Qualified Div-
idends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet,
later, to figure your tax if you don’t have
to use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet
and if any of the following applies.
•  You reported qualified dividends
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 3a.
•  You don’t have to file Schedule D
and you reported capital gain distribu-
tions on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
•  You  are  filing  Schedule  D,  and
Schedule D, lines 15 and 16, are both
more than zero.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you
must use the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet instead.
Schedule J.  If you had income from
farming  or  fishing  (including  certain
amounts received in connection with the
Exxon Valdez litigation), your tax may
be less if you choose to figure it using
income averaging on Schedule J.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Work-
sheet.  If you claimed the foreign earned
income exclusion, housing exclusion, or
housing deduction on Form 2555, you
must figure your tax using the Foreign
Earned Income Tax Worksheet.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 16  Keep for Your Records
CAUTION
!
If Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, is zero, don’t complete this worksheet.
1.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2a.  Enter the amount from your (and your spouse's if filing jointly) Form 2555, lines 45 and 50  . . . . . . .  2a.
b.  Enter the total amount of any itemized deductions or exclusions you couldn't claim because they are
related to excluded income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  b.
c.  Subtract line 2b from line 2a. If zero or less, enter -0-  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  c.
3.  Add lines 1 and 2c  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Figure the tax on the amount on line 3 . Use the Tax Table, Tax Computation Worksheet,
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet*, Schedule D Tax Worksheet*, or Form 8615,
whichever applies. See the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, to see which tax
computation method applies. (Don’t use a second Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet to figure
the tax on this line.)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Figure the tax on the amount on line 2c . If the amount on line 2c is less than $100,000, use the
Tax Table to figure this tax. If the amount on line 2c is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5.
6.  Subtract line 5 from line 4. Enter the result. If zero or less, enter -0-. Also include this amount on
the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6.
* Enter the amount from line 3 above on line 1 of the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet if you
use either of those worksheets to figure the tax on line 4 above. Complete the rest of that worksheet through line 4 (line 10 if you use the
Schedule D Tax Worksheet). Next, you must determine if you have a capital gain excess. To find out if you have a capital gain excess, subtract
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, from line 4 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet (line 10 of your Schedule D Tax
Worksheet). If the result is more than zero, that amount is your capital gain excess.
If you don’t have a capital gain excess, complete the rest of either of those worksheets according to the worksheet's instructions. Then,
complete lines 5 and 6 above.
If you have a capital gain excess, complete a second Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet
(whichever applies) as instructed above but in its entirety and with the following additional modifications. Then, complete lines 5 and 6 above.
These modifications are to be made only for purposes of filling out the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet above.
1. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 3 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet
or line 9 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by your capital gain excess.
2. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 2 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet
or line 6 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by any of your capital gain excess not used in (1) above.
3. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount on your Schedule D (Form 1040), line 18, by your capital gain excess.
4. Include your capital gain excess as a loss on line 16 of your Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet in the Instructions for Schedule D
(Form 1040).
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  35

=== PAGE 36 ===
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16  Keep for Your Records
See the earlier instructions for line 16 to see if you can use this worksheet to figure your tax.
Before completing this worksheet, complete Form 1040 or 1040-SR through line 15.
If you don’t have to file Schedule D and you received capital gain distributions, be sure you checked the box
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
Before you begin:
1.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. However, if you are filing
Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned income), enter the amount from line 3 of the
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 3a*  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Are you filing Schedule D?*
Yes.  Enter the  smaller  of line 15 or line 16 of
Schedule D. If either line 15 or line 16 is
blank or a loss, enter -0-.  3.
No.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 7.
4.  Add lines 2 and 3  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Subtract line 4 from line 1. If zero or less, enter -0-  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5.
6.  Enter:
$47,025 if single or married filing separately,
$94,050 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
$63,000 if head of household.  
. . . . . . . . . . . .  6.
7.  Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 6  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7.
8.  Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8.
9.  Subtract line 8 from line 7. This amount is taxed at 0%  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
10.  Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10.
11.  Enter the amount from line 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11.
12.  Subtract line 11 from line 10  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12.
13.  Enter:
$518,900 if single,
$291,850 if married filing separately,
$583,750 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
$551,350 if head of household.
. . . . . . . . . . . .  13.
14.  Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 13  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14.
15.  Add lines 5 and 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15.
16.  Subtract line 15 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0-  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16.
17.  Enter the smaller of line 12 or line 16  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17.
18.  Multiply line 17 by 15% (0.15)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18.
19.  Add lines 9 and 17  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19.
20.  Subtract line 19 from line 10  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20.
21.  Multiply line 20 by 20% (0.20)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21.
22.  Figure the tax on the amount on line 5. If the amount on line 5 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table
to figure the tax. If the amount on line 5 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22.
23.  Add lines 18, 21, and 22  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23.
24.  Figure the tax on the amount on line 1. If the amount on line 1 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table
to figure the tax. If the amount on line 1 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24.
25.  Tax on all taxable income.  Enter the  smaller  of line 23 or line 24. Also include this amount on the
entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. If you are filing Form 2555, don’t enter this amount on
the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. Instead, enter it on line 4 of the Foreign Earned
Income Tax Worksheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25.
* If you are filing Form 2555, see the footnote in the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet before completing this line.
36  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 37 ===
Line 19
Child Tax Credit and Credit
for Other Dependents
See Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its
instructions for information on figuring
and claiming any child tax credit and
credit for other dependents that you may
qualify to claim.
Form 8862, who must file.  You must
file Form 8862 to claim the child tax
credit or credit for other dependents if
your child tax credit (refundable or non-
refundable depending on the tax year),
additional child tax credit, or credit for
other dependents for a year after 2015
was denied or reduced for any reason
other than a math or clerical error. At-
tach a completed Form 8862 to your
2024 return to claim the credit for 2024.
Don’t file Form 8862 if you filed Form
8862 for 2023, and the child tax credit,
additional child tax credit, or credit for
other dependents was allowed for that
year. See Form 8862 and its instructions
for details.
If you claim the child tax credit
or credit for other dependents
even though you aren't eligible
and it is determined that your error is
due to reckless or intentional disregard
of the rules for these credits, you won't
be allowed to take either credit or the
additional child tax credit for 2 years
even if you're otherwise eligible to do so.
If you claim the child tax credit or credit
for other dependents even though you
aren’t eligible and it is later determined
that  you  fraudulently  claimed  either
credit, you won't be allowed to take ei-
ther credit or the additional child tax
credit for 10 years. You may also have to
pay penalties.
If your qualifying child didn’t
have an SSN valid for employ-
ment issued before the due date
of your 2024 return (including exten-
sions),  you  can’t  claim  the  child  tax
credit for that child on your original or
amended return. However, you may be
able to claim the credit for other de-
pendents for that child.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Payments
Line 25
Federal Income Tax
Withheld
Line 25a—Form(s) W-2
Add the amounts shown as federal in-
come  tax  withheld  on  your  Form(s)
W-2. Enter the total on line 25a. The
amount withheld should be shown in
box  2  of  Form  W-2.  Attach  your
Form(s) W-2 to your return.
Line 25b—Form(s) 1099
Include on line 25b any federal income
tax withheld on your Form(s) 1099-R.
The amount withheld should be shown
in box 4. Attach your Form(s) 1099-R to
the front of your return if federal income
tax was withheld.
If you received a 2024 Form 1099
showing federal income tax withheld on
dividends, taxable or tax-exempt interest
income,  unemployment  compensation,
social security benefits, railroad retire-
ment benefits, or other income you re-
ceived, include the amount withheld in
the total on line 25b. This should be
shown in box 4 of Form 1099, box 6 of
Form SSA-1099, or box 10 of Form
RRB-1099.
Line 25c—Other Forms
Include on line 25c any federal income
tax withheld on your Form(s) W-2G.
The amount withheld should be shown
in box 4. Attach Form(s) W-2G to the
front of your return if federal income tax
was withheld.
If you had Additional Medicare Tax
withheld, include the amount shown on
Form  8959,  line  24,  in  the  total  on
line 25c. Attach Form 8959.
Include on line 25c any federal in-
come tax withheld that is shown on a
Schedule K-1.
Also  include  on  line  25c  any  tax
withheld that is shown on Form 1042-S,
Form 8805, or Form 8288-A. To assist
in processing, attach the form to your re-
turn to claim a credit for the withhold-
ing.
Line 26
2024 Estimated Tax
Payments
Enter any estimated federal income tax
payments you made for 2024. Include
any  overpayment  that  you  applied  to
your 2024 estimated tax from your 2023
return  or  an  amended  return  (Form
1040-X).
If you and your spouse paid joint esti-
mated tax but are now filing separate in-
come tax returns, you can divide the
amount paid in any way you choose as
long as you both agree. If you can't
agree, you must divide the payments in
proportion to each spouse's individual
tax as shown on your separate returns
for  2024.  For  more  information,  see
Pub. 505. Be sure to show both SSNs in
the space provided on the separate re-
turns. If you or your spouse paid sepa-
rate estimated tax but you are now filing
a joint return, add the amounts you each
paid. Follow these instructions even if
your spouse died in 2024 or in 2025 be-
fore filing a 2024 return.
Divorced  taxpayers.  If  you  got  di-
vorced in 2024 and you made joint esti-
mated tax payments with your former
spouse, enter your former spouse's SSN
in the space provided on the front of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you were di-
vorced  and  remarried  in  2024,  enter
your present spouse's SSN in the space
provided on the front of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Also, on the dotted line next
to line 26, enter your former spouse's
SSN, followed by “DIV.”
Name  change.  If  you  changed  your
name and you made estimated tax pay-
ments using your former name, attach a
statement to the front of Form 1040 or
1040-SR that explains all the payments
you and your spouse made in 2024 and
the name(s) and SSN(s) under which
you made them.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  37

=== PAGE 38 ===
Line 27—
Earned Income Credit (EIC)
What Is the EIC?
The EIC is a credit for certain people who work. The credit may
give you a refund even if you don’t owe any tax or didn’t have
any tax withheld.
To Take the EIC:
•  Follow the steps below.
•  Complete the worksheet that applies to you or let the IRS
figure the credit for you.
•  If you have at least one child who meets the conditions to
be your qualifying child for purposes of claiming the EIC, com-
plete and attach Schedule EIC, even if that child doesn't have a
valid SSN. See Schedule EIC for more information, including
how to complete Schedule EIC if your qualifying child doesn't
have a valid SSN.
For help in determining if you are eligible for the EIC, go to
IRS.gov/EITC  and click on “Check if You Qualify.” This service
is available in English and Spanish.
If you claim the EIC even though you aren't eligible
and it is determined that your error is due to reckless
or intentional disregard of the EIC rules, you won't be
allowed to take the credit for 2 years even if you are otherwise
eligible to do so. If you fraudulently claim the EIC, you won't be
allowed to take the credit for 10 years. See  Form 8862, who
must file,  later. You may also have to pay penalties.
Refunds for returns claiming the earned income credit
can't be issued before mid-February 2025. This delay
applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associ-
ated with the earned income credit.
All Filers
1.  If, in 2024:
•  3 or more children who have valid SSNs lived with you,
is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less
than $59,899 ($66,819 if married filing jointly)?
•  2 children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$55,768 ($62,688 if married filing jointly)?
•  1 child who has a valid SSN lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$49,084 ($56,004 if married filing jointly)?
•  No children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$18,591 ($25,511 if married filing jointly)?
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can't take the credit.
2.  Do you, and your spouse if filing a joint return, have a
social security number issued on or before the due date of
your 2024 return (including extensions) that allows you to
CAUTION
!
TIP
Step 1
work and is valid for EIC purposes (explained later under
Definitions and Special Rules )?
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can't take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted
line next to line 27.
3.  Are you filing Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned
income)?
Yes. STOP
You can't take the
credit.
No.  Continue

4.  Were you or your spouse a nonresident alien for any part of
2024?
Yes.  See  Nonresident
aliens , later, under
Definitions and Special
Rules .
No.  Go to Step 2.
Investment Income
1.  Add the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR:
Line 2a
Line 2b  +
Line 3b  +
Line 7*  +
Investment Income  =
*If line 7 is a loss, enter -0-.
2.  Is your investment income more than $11,600?
Yes.  Continue

 No.  Skip question 3; go
to question 4.
3.  Are you filing Form 4797 (relating to sales of business
property)?
Yes.  See  Form 4797
filers , later, under
Definitions and Special
Rules .
No. STOP
You can't take the credit.
4.  Do any of the following apply for 2024?
•  You are filing Schedule E.
•  You are reporting income from the rental of personal
property not used in a trade or business.
•  You are filing Form 8814 (relating to election to report
child's interest and dividends on your return).
•  You have income or loss from a passive activity.
Yes.  Use Worksheet 1
in Pub. 596 to see if you
can take the credit.
No.  Go to Step 3.
Step 2
38  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 39 ===
Qualifying Child
A qualifying child for the EIC is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister,
half brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your
grandchild, niece, or nephew)
AND
was ...
Under age 19 at the end of 2024 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Under age 24 at the end of 2024, a student (defined later), and younger than
you (or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)
AND
Who isn't filing a joint return for 2024
or is filing a joint return for 2024 only to claim a refund of withheld income
tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 596 for examples)
AND
Who lived with you in the United States for more than half of 2024.
CAUTION
!
You can't take the credit for a child who didn't live with you for more
than half the year, even if you paid most of the child's living expenses. The
IRS may ask you for documents to show you lived with each qualifying child.
Documents you might want to keep for this purpose include school and child
care records and other records that show your child's address.
TIP
If the child didn't live with you for more than half of 2024 because of
a temporary absence, birth, death, or kidnapping, see  Exception to time
lived with you,  later.
CAUTION
!
If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other
person (other than your spouse, if filing a joint return) for 2024, see
Qualifying child of more than one person,  later. If the child was married, see
Married child,  later.
1.  Do you have at least one child who meets the conditions to
be your qualifying child for the purpose of claiming the
EIC?
Yes.  Continue

 No.  Skip questions 2
through 6; go to Step 4.
2.  Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
Yes.  Skip questions 3
through 6 and Step 4;
go to Step 5.
No.  Continue

Step 3  3.  Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married
filing separately or head of household?
Yes.  Continue

 No.  Skip questions 4
and 5; go to question 6.
4.  Did you and your spouse have the same principal residence
for the last 6 months of 2024?
Yes.  Continue

 No.  Skip question 5; go
to question 6.
5.  Are you legally separated according to your state law under
a written separation agreement or a decree of separate
maintenance and you lived apart from your spouse at the
end of 2024?
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can’t take the credit.
6.  Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2024?
(Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and
isn't filing, a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only
to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
Yes. STOP
You can't take the
credit.  Enter “No” on
the dotted line next to
line 27.
No.  Skip Step 4; go to
Step 5.
Filers Without a Qualifying
Child
1.  Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married
filing separately or head of household?
Yes. STOP
You can’t take the
credit.
No.  Continue

2.  Were you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, at least age
25 but under age 65 at the end of 2024? (Check “Yes” if
you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, were born after
December 31, 1959, and before January 2, 2000.) If your
spouse died in 2024 or if you are preparing a return for
someone who died in 2024, see Pub. 596 before you answer.
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can’t take the credit.
3.  Was your main home, and your spouse's if filing a joint
return, in the United States for more than half of 2024? Your
main home can be any location where you regularly live.
For examples, see  Main home , later. Members of the
military stationed outside the United States, see  Members of
the military , later, before you answer.
Yes.  Continue

 No. STOP
You can't take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted
line next to line 27.
Step 4
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  39

=== PAGE 40 ===
4.  Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
Yes.  Skip questions 5
and 6; go to Step 5.  
No.  Continue

5.  Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2024?
(Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and
isn't filing, a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only
to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
Yes. STOP
You can't take the
credit.  Enter “No”
on the dotted line next
to line 27.
No.  Continue

6.  Can you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024
tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their 2024
tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024 tax
return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
Yes. STOP
You can't take the
credit.
No.  Go to Step 5.
Earned Income
1.  Are you filing Schedule SE because you were a member of
the clergy or you had church employee income of $108.28
or more?
Yes.  See  Clergy  or
Church employees ,
whichever applies.
No.  Complete the
following worksheet.
1.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 1z  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1.
2.  Enter the Medicaid waiver payment amounts
excluded from income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8s, unless you choose to include these amounts
in earned income, in which case enter -0-. See the
instructions for Schedule 1, line 8s.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2.
TIP
If you and your spouse both received Medicaid waiver
payments during the year, you and your spouse can make different
choices about including the full amount of your payments in earned
income. Enter only the amount of Medicaid waiver payments that you
or your spouse, if filing a joint return, do not want to include in earned
income. To include all nontaxable Medicaid waiver payment amounts in
earned income, enter -0-.
3.  Subtract line 2 from line 1  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3.
Step 5
4.  Enter all of your nontaxable combat pay if you elect
to include it in earned income. Also enter the amount
of your nontaxable combat pay on line 1i of Form
1040 or 1040-SR. See  Combat pay,
nontaxable , later  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4.
CAUTION
!
Electing to include nontaxable combat pay may increase or
decrease your EIC. Figure the credit with and without your nontaxable
combat pay before making the election.
5.  Add lines 3 and 4.
This is your earned income  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5.
2.  Were you self-employed at any time in 2024, or are you
filing Schedule SE because you were a member of the
clergy or you had church employee income, or are you
filing Schedule C as a statutory employee?
Yes.  Skip question 3
and Step 6; go to
Worksheet B.
No.  Continue

3.  If you have:
•  3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is
your earned income less than $59,899 ($66,819 if
married filing jointly)?
•  2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your
earned income less than $55,768 ($62,688 if married
filing jointly)?
•  1 qualifying child who has a valid SSN, is your earned
income less than $49,084 ($56,004 if married filing
jointly)?
•  No qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your
earned income less than $18,591 ($25,511 if married
filing jointly)?
Yes.  Go to Step 6.  No. STOP
You can't take the credit.
How To Figure the Credit
1.  Do you want the IRS to figure the credit for you?
Yes.  See  Credit figured
by the IRS , later.  
No.  Go to Worksheet A.
Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child.  An adopted child is always treated as your own
child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption.
Church employees.  Determine how much of the amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, was also reported on Sched-
ule SE, Part I, line 5a. Subtract that amount from the amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, and enter the result on line 1 of
the worksheet in Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount
from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a). Be sure to answer “Yes”
to question 2 in Step 5.
Clergy.  The following instructions apply to ministers, members
of religious orders who have not taken a vow of poverty, and
Christian Science practitioners. If you are filing Schedule SE
and the amount on line 2 of that schedule includes an amount
Step 6
40  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 41 ===
that was also reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, do the
following.
1.  Enter “Clergy” on the dotted line next to line 27.
2.  Determine how much of the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1z, was also reported on Schedule SE, Part I,
line 2.
3.  Subtract that amount from the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1z. Enter the result on line 1 of the worksheet in
Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount from Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 1z).
4.  Be sure to answer “Yes” to question 2 in Step 5.
Combat pay, nontaxable.  If you were a member of the U.S.
Armed Forces who served in a combat zone, certain pay is ex-
cluded from your income. See  Combat Zone Exclusion  in Pub.
3. You can elect to include this pay in your earned income when
figuring the EIC. The amount of your nontaxable combat pay
should be shown in box 12 of Form(s) W-2 with code Q. If you
are filing a joint return and both you and your spouse received
nontaxable combat pay, you can each make your own election.
In other words, if one of you makes the election, the other one
can also make it but doesn't have to.
If you elect to use your nontaxable combat pay in figur-
ing your EIC, enter that amount on line 1i.
Credit figured by the IRS.  To have the IRS figure your EIC:
1.  Enter “EIC” on the dotted line next to line 27.
2.  Be sure you enter the nontaxable combat pay you elect to
include in earned income by entering that amount on line 1i.
See  Combat pay, nontaxable , earlier.
3.  If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach
Schedule EIC. If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or
disallowed, see  Form 8862, who must file , later.
Exception to time lived with you.  Temporary absences by you
or the child for special circumstances, such as school, vacation,
business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juve-
nile facility, count as time the child lived with you. Also see
Kidnapped child  under  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent , earli-
er, and  Members of the military , later. A child is considered to
have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if the child was
born or died in 2024 and your home was this child's home for
more than half the time the child was alive in 2024 or if you
adopted the child in 2024, the child was lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or the child was an eligi-
ble foster child placed with you during 2024 and your main
home was the child's main home for more than half the time
since the child was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Form 4797 filers.  If the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 7, includes an amount from Form 4797, you must use
Worksheet 1 in Pub. 596 to see if you can take the EIC. Other-
wise, stop; you can't take the EIC.
Form 8862, who must file.  You must file Form 8862 if your
EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed for any
reason other than a math or clerical error. But don’t file Form
8862 if either of the following applies.
CAUTION
!
•  You filed Form 8862 for another year, the EIC was al-
lowed for that year, and your EIC hasn't been reduced or disal-
lowed again for any reason other than a math or clerical error.
•  You are taking the EIC without a qualifying child and the
only reason your EIC was reduced or disallowed in the other
year was because it was determined that a child listed on Sched-
ule EIC wasn't your qualifying child.
Also, don’t file Form 8862 or take the credit for the:
•  2 years after the most recent tax year for which there was
a final determination that your EIC claim was due to reckless or
intentional disregard of the EIC rules, or
•  10 years after the most recent tax year for which there was
a final determination that your EIC claim was due to fraud.
Foster child.  A foster child is any child placed with you by an
authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other
order of any court of competent jurisdiction. For more details on
authorized placement agencies, see Pub. 596.
Main home.  Your main home may be your house, apartment,
mobile home, shelter, temporary lodging, or other location and
doesn't need to be the same physical location throughout 2024.
You don't need a permanent address.
Married child.  A child who was married at the end of 2024 is
a qualifying child only if (a) you can claim the child as your de-
pendent, or (b) you could have claimed the child as your de-
pendent except for the special rule for  Children of divorced or
separated parents  under  Who Qualifies as Your Dependent , ear-
lier.
Members of the military.  If you were on extended active duty
outside the United States, your main home is considered to be in
the United States during that duty period. Extended active duty
is military duty ordered for an indefinite period or for a period
of more than 90 days. Once you begin serving extended active
duty, you are considered to be on extended active duty even if
you don’t serve more than 90 days.
Nonresident aliens.  If you checked the box in the  Filing Status
section to treat a nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse as
a U.S. resident for the entire year, go to Step 2. Otherwise, stop;
you can't take the EIC. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to
line 27. See  Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens , earlier.
Permanently and totally disabled.  A person is permanently
and totally disabled if, at any time in 2024, the person couldn't
engage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical
or mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condi-
tion (a) has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at
least a year, or (b) can be expected to lead to death.
Qualifying child of more than one person.  Even if a child
meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one
person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child
for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents  under  Who Qualifies
as Your Dependent , earlier, applies.
1.  Child tax credit, credit for other dependents, and addi-
tional child tax credit (lines 19 and 28).
2.  Head of household filing status.
3.  Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule
3, line 2).
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  41

=== PAGE 42 ===
4.  Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part
III).
5.  Earned income credit (line 27).
No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed
based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can
claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply.
For purposes of these rules, the term “parent” means a biologi-
cal or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a step-
parent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the indi-
vidual.
•  If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is
treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
•  If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the
child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the parents.
•  If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both pa-
rents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the
child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child
lived for the longer period of time in 2024. If the child lived
with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat
the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the high-
er adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024.
•  If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the
child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the
highest AGI for 2024.
•  If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no
parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualify-
ing child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024, but
only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any
parent of the child who can claim the child.
If, under these rules, you can't claim a child as a quali-
fying child for the EIC, you may be able to claim the
EIC under the rules for a taxpayer without a qualifying
child. For more information, see Pub. 596.
Example.  Your child, Lee, meets the conditions to be a qual-
ifying child for both you and your parent. Lee doesn't meet the
conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, includ-
ing Lee’s other parent. Under the rules just described, you can
claim Lee as a qualifying child for all of the five tax benefits lis-
ted here for which you otherwise qualify. Your parent can't
claim any of the five tax benefits listed here based on Lee.
However, if your parent’s AGI is higher than yours and you
don’t claim Lee as a qualifying child, Lee is the qualifying child
of your parent.
TIP
For more details and examples, see Pub. 596.
Social security number (SSN).  For the EIC, a valid SSN is a
number issued by the Social Security Administration unless
“Not Valid for Employment” is printed on the social security
card and the number was issued solely to allow the recipient of
the SSN to apply for or receive a federally funded benefit. If
“Not Valid for Employment” is printed on the social security
card and the cardholder’s immigration status has changed so
that they are now a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, ask the
SSA for a new social security card without the legend. Howev-
er, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed
on your social security card, your SSN is valid for EIC purposes
only as long as the DHS authorization is still valid.
To find out how to get an SSN, see  Social Security Number
(SSN)  near the beginning of these instructions. If you won't
have an SSN by the date your return is due, see  What if You
Can't File on Time?
If you didn't have an SSN issued on or before the due date of
your 2024 return (including extensions), you can't claim the EIC
on your original or an amended 2024 return. If a child didn't
have an SSN issued on or before the due date of your return (in-
cluding extensions), you can't count that child as a qualifying
child in figuring the amount of the EIC on your original or an
amended 2024 return.
Student.  A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar
months of 2024 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school
or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or
a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a
technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an
on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school of-
fering courses only through the Internet.
Welfare benefits, effect of credit on.  Any refund you receive
as a result of taking the EIC can't be counted as income when
determining if you or anyone else is eligible for benefits or as-
sistance, or how much you or anyone else can receive, under
any federal program or under any state or local program fi-
nanced in whole or in part with federal funds. These programs
include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF),
Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps). In
addition, when determining eligibility, the refund can't be coun-
ted as a resource for at least 12 months after you receive it.
Check with your local benefit coordinator to find out if your re-
fund will affect your benefits.
42  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 43 ===
A Worksheet  —2024 EIC—Line 27
1040
1040-SR
or
Yes.  Skip line 5; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
STOP
Keep for Your Records
Before you begin:
1.
3.
4.
5.
1 Enter your earned income from Step 5.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
Are the amounts on lines 3 and 1 the same?
No.  Go to line 5.
If you have:
Yes.  Leave line 5 blank; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
No.  Look up the amount on line 3 in the EIC Table to find the
credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing
status and the number of qualifying children you have who
have a valid SSN. Enter the credit here.
Enter this amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 27.
3
6
Part 3
Part 1
Part 2
All Filers Using
Worksheet A
Filers Who
Answered
“No” on
Line 4
Your Earned
Income Credit
2
●  No qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on
line 3 less than $10,330 ($17,250 if married filing jointly)?
●  1 or more qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount
on line 3 less than $22,720 ($29,640 if married filing jointly)?
Look at the amounts on lines 5 and 2.
Then, enter the  smaller  amount on line 6.
5
6.  This is your earned income credit.
Reminder—
If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC.
If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see
Form 8862, who must file , earlier, to find out if you must file Form 8862 to
take the credit for 2024.
EIC
1040 or
1040-SR
CAUTION
Be sure you are using the correct worksheet. Use this worksheet only if you
answered “No” to Step 5, question 2. Otherwise, use Worksheet B.
2.  Look up the amount on line 1 above in the EIC Table (right after
Worksheet B) to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column
for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who
have a valid SSN as defined earlier. Enter the credit here.
If line 2 is zero,  You can’t take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  43

=== PAGE 44 ===
B Worksheet  —2024 EIC—Line 27
STOP
Keep for Your Records
Use this worksheet if you answered “Yes” to Step 5, question 2.
Complete the parts below (Parts 1 through 3) that apply to you. Then, continue to Part 4.
1a.
2.
3.
1a
Enter the amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 3.
Subtract line 1d from line 1c.
Don’t include on these lines any statutory employee income, any net profit from services performed as a
notary public, any amount exempt from self-employment tax as the result of the filing and approval of Form
4029 or Form 4361, or any other amounts exempt from self-employment tax.
Yes.  If you want the IRS to figure your credit, see  Credit figured by the IRS , earlier. If you want to
figure the credit yourself, enter the amount from line 4b on line 6 of this worksheet.
Part 3
Part 1
Part 2
Self-Employed,
Members of the
Clergy, and
People With
Church Employee
Income Filing
Schedule SE
Self-Employed
NOT Required
To File
Schedule SE
Statutory Employees
Filing Schedule C
If you are married filing a joint return, include your spouse’s amounts, if any, with yours to figure the amounts to
enter in Parts 1 through 3.
1e
c.
d.
e.
1c
Enter any amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 4b and line 5a.
1d
Combine lines 1a and 1b.
Enter the amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 13.
=
=
For example, your
net earnings from
self-employment
were less than $400.
a.  
2a
Enter any net farm profit or (loss) from Schedule F, line 34; and
from farm partnerships, Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A*.
b.  
2b
Enter any net profit or (loss) from Schedule C, line 31; and Schedule
K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A (other than farming)*.  
+
Combine lines 2a and 2b.  2c c.  =
Enter the amount from Schedule C, line 1, that you are filing as a
statutory employee.  
3
Part 4
All Filers Using
Worksheet B
Note.  If line 4b
includes income on
which you should
have paid self-
employment tax but
didn’t, we may
reduce your credit by
the amount of
self-employment tax
not paid.
4a.  Enter your earned income from Step 5.
4b
b.  Combine lines 1e, 2c, 3, and 4a.  This is your total earned income.
5.  If you have:
No.  You can’t take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 27.
* If you have any Schedule K-1 amounts, complete the appropriate line(s) of Schedule SE, Part I.
Reduce the Schedule K-1 amounts as described in the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1. Enter
your name and social security number on Schedule SE and attach it to your return.
If line 4b is zero or less,  You can’t take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 27.
4a
STOP
b.  
1b +
–
3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $59,899 ($66,819 if married
filing jointly)?
●
2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $55,768 ($62,688 if married filing jointly)? ●
1 qualifying child who has a valid SSN, is line 4b less than $49,084 ($56,004 if married filing jointly)? ●
No qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $18,591 ($25,511 if married filing jointly)? ●
44  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 45 ===
B Worksheet  —2024 EIC—Line 27— Continued
Skip line 10; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11. Yes.
STOP
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
6 Enter your total earned income from Part 4, line 4b.
Look up the amount on line 6 above in the EIC Table to find
the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and
the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN. Enter
the credit here.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 11.
Are the amounts on lines 8 and 6 the same?
Go to line 10. No.
If you have:
Leave line 10 blank; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11. Yes.
No.  Look up the amount on line 8 in the EIC Table to find the
credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status
and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid
SSN. Enter the credit here.
8
11
Part 5
Part 7
All Filers Using
Worksheet B
Your Earned
Income Credit
7
If line 7 is zero,  You can’t take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
No qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on line 8
less than $10,330 ($17,250 if married filing jointly)?
1 or more qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on
line 8 less than $22,720 ($29,640 if married filing jointly)?
Look at the amounts on lines 10 and 7.
Then, enter the  smaller  amount on line 11.
10
This is your earned income credit.
Reminder—
If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC.
If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see
Form 8862, who must file,  earlier, to find out if you must file Form
8862 to take the credit for 2024.
Part 6
Filers Who
Answered
“No” on
Line 9
CAUTION
11.
●
●
1040
1040-SR
or
Enter this amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 27.
EIC
1040 or
1040-SR
Keep for Your Records
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  45

=== PAGE 46 ===
2024 Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table
Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.
At least
2
Your credit is—
1
And your filing status is—
0
If the amount you are
looking up from the
worksheet is—
Single, head of household,  or
qualifying surviving spouse  and
the number of children you have is—
2,400
2,450
2,450
2,500
3
1,091
1,114
But less
than
186  825  970
189  842  990
1.  To find your credit, read down
the “At least - But less than”
columns and find the line that
includes the amount you were told
to look up from your EIC
Worksheet.
2.  Then, go to the column that
includes your filing status and the
number of qualifying children you
have who have valid SSNs as
defined earlier. Enter the credit from
that column on your EIC Worksheet.
Example.  If your filing status is
single, you have one qualifying
child who has a valid SSN, and the
amount you are looking up from
your EIC Worksheet is $2,455, you
would enter $842.
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
1  50  2  9  10  11  2  9  10  11
50  100  6  26  30  34  6  26  30  34
100  150  10  43  50  56  10  43  50  56
150  200  13  60  70  79  13  60  70  79
200  250  17  77  90  101  17  77  90  101
250  300  21  94  110  124  21  94  110  124
300  350  25  111  130  146  25  111  130  146
350  400  29  128  150  169  29  128  150  169
400  450  33  145  170  191  33  145  170  191
450  500  36  162  190  214  36  162  190  214
500  550  40  179  210  236  40  179  210  236
550  600  44  196  230  259  44  196  230  259
600  650  48  213  250  281  48  213  250  281
650  700  52  230  270  304  52  230  270  304
700  750  55  247  290  326  55  247  290  326
750  800  59  264  310  349  59  264  310  349
800  850  63  281  330  371  63  281  330  371
850  900  67  298  350  394  67  298  350  394
900  950  71  315  370  416  71  315  370  416
950  1,000  75  332  390  439  75  332  390  439
1,000  1,050  78  349  410  461  78  349  410  461
1,050  1,100  82  366  430  484  82  366  430  484
1,100  1,150  86  383  450  506  86  383  450  506
1,150  1,200  90  400  470  529  90  400  470  529
1,200  1,250  94  417  490  551  94  417  490  551
1,250  1,300  98  434  510  574  98  434  510  574
1,300  1,350  101  451  530  596  101  451  530  596
1,350  1,400  105  468  550  619  105  468  550  619
1,400  1,450  109  485  570  641  109  485  570  641
1,450  1,500  113  502  590  664  113  502  590  664
1,500  1,550  117  519  610  686  117  519  610  686
1,550  1,600  120  536  630  709  120  536  630  709
1,600  1,650  124  553  650  731  124  553  650  731
1,650  1,700  128  570  670  754  128  570  670  754
1,700  1,750  132  587  690  776  132  587  690  776
1,750  1,800  136  604  710  799  136  604  710  799
1,800  1,850  140  621  730  821  140  621  730  821
1,850  1,900  143  638  750  844  143  638  750  844
1,900  1,950  147  655  770  866  147  655  770  866
1,950  2,000  151  672  790  889  151  672  790  889
2,000  2,050  155  689  810  911  155  689  810  911
2,050  2,100  159  706  830  934  159  706  830  934
2,100  2,150  163  723  850  956  163  723  850  956
2,150  2,200  166  740  870  979  166  740  870  979
2,200  2,250  170  757  890  1,001  170  757  890  1,001
2,250  2,300  174  774  910  1,024  174  774  910  1,024
2,300  2,350  178  791  930  1,046  178  791  930  1,046
2,350  2,400  182  808  950  1,069  182  808  950  1,069
2,400  2,450  186  825  970  1,091  186  825  970  1,091
2,450  2,500  189  842  990  1,114  189  842  990  1,114
2,500  2,550  193  859  1,010  1,136  193  859  1,010  1,136
2,550  2,600  197  876  1,030  1,159  197  876  1,030  1,159
2,600  2,650  201  893  1,050  1,181  201  893  1,050  1,181
2,650  2,700  205  910  1,070  1,204  205  910  1,070  1,204
2,700  2,750  208  927  1,090  1,226  208  927  1,090  1,226
2,750  2,800  212  944  1,110  1,249  212  944  1,110  1,249
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
2,800  2,850  216  961  1,130  1,271  216  961  1,130  1,271
2,850  2,900  220  978  1,150  1,294  220  978  1,150  1,294
2,900  2,950  224  995  1,170  1,316  224  995  1,170  1,316
2,950  3,000  228  1,012  1,190  1,339  228  1,012  1,190  1,339
3,000  3,050  231  1,029  1,210  1,361  231  1,029  1,210  1,361
3,050  3,100  235  1,046  1,230  1,384  235  1,046  1,230  1,384
3,100  3,150  239  1,063  1,250  1,406  239  1,063  1,250  1,406
3,150  3,200  243  1,080  1,270  1,429  243  1,080  1,270  1,429
3,200  3,250  247  1,097  1,290  1,451  247  1,097  1,290  1,451
3,250  3,300  251  1,114  1,310  1,474  251  1,114  1,310  1,474
3,300  3,350  254  1,131  1,330  1,496  254  1,131  1,330  1,496
3,350  3,400  258  1,148  1,350  1,519  258  1,148  1,350  1,519
3,400  3,450  262  1,165  1,370  1,541  262  1,165  1,370  1,541
3,450  3,500  266  1,182  1,390  1,564  266  1,182  1,390  1,564
3,500  3,550  270  1,199  1,410  1,586  270  1,199  1,410  1,586
3,550  3,600  273  1,216  1,430  1,609  273  1,216  1,430  1,609
3,600  3,650  277  1,233  1,450  1,631  277  1,233  1,450  1,631
3,650  3,700  281  1,250  1,470  1,654  281  1,250  1,470  1,654
3,700  3,750  285  1,267  1,490  1,676  285  1,267  1,490  1,676
3,750  3,800  289  1,284  1,510  1,699  289  1,284  1,510  1,699
3,800  3,850  293  1,301  1,530  1,721  293  1,301  1,530  1,721
3,850  3,900  296  1,318  1,550  1,744  296  1,318  1,550  1,744
3,900  3,950  300  1,335  1,570  1,766  300  1,335  1,570  1,766
3,950  4,000  304  1,352  1,590  1,789  304  1,352  1,590  1,789
4,000  4,050  308  1,369  1,610  1,811  308  1,369  1,610  1,811
4,050  4,100  312  1,386  1,630  1,834  312  1,386  1,630  1,834
4,100  4,150  316  1,403  1,650  1,856  316  1,403  1,650  1,856
4,150  4,200  319  1,420  1,670  1,879  319  1,420  1,670  1,879
4,200  4,250  323  1,437  1,690  1,901  323  1,437  1,690  1,901
4,250  4,300  327  1,454  1,710  1,924  327  1,454  1,710  1,924
4,300  4,350  331  1,471  1,730  1,946  331  1,471  1,730  1,946
4,350  4,400  335  1,488  1,750  1,969  335  1,488  1,750  1,969
4,400  4,450  339  1,505  1,770  1,991  339  1,505  1,770  1,991
4,450  4,500  342  1,522  1,790  2,014  342  1,522  1,790  2,014
4,500  4,550  346  1,539  1,810  2,036  346  1,539  1,810  2,036
4,550  4,600  350  1,556  1,830  2,059  350  1,556  1,830  2,059
4,600  4,650  354  1,573  1,850  2,081  354  1,573  1,850  2,081
4,650  4,700  358  1,590  1,870  2,104  358  1,590  1,870  2,104
4,700  4,750  361  1,607  1,890  2,126  361  1,607  1,890  2,126
4,750  4,800  365  1,624  1,910  2,149  365  1,624  1,910  2,149
4,800  4,850  369  1,641  1,930  2,171  369  1,641  1,930  2,171
4,850  4,900  373  1,658  1,950  2,194  373  1,658  1,950  2,194
4,900  4,950  377  1,675  1,970  2,216  377  1,675  1,970  2,216
4,950  5,000  381  1,692  1,990  2,239  381  1,692  1,990  2,239
5,000  5,050  384  1,709  2,010  2,261  384  1,709  2,010  2,261
5,050  5,100  388  1,726  2,030  2,284  388  1,726  2,030  2,284
5,100  5,150  392  1,743  2,050  2,306  392  1,743  2,050  2,306
5,150  5,200  396  1,760  2,070  2,329  396  1,760  2,070  2,329
5,200  5,250  400  1,777  2,090  2,351  400  1,777  2,090  2,351
5,250  5,300  404  1,794  2,110  2,374  404  1,794  2,110  2,374
5,300  5,350  407  1,811  2,130  2,396  407  1,811  2,130  2,396
5,350  5,400  411  1,828  2,150  2,419  411  1,828  2,150  2,419
5,400  5,450  415  1,845  2,170  2,441  415  1,845  2,170  2,441
5,450  5,500  419  1,862  2,190  2,464  419  1,862  2,190  2,464
5,500  5,550  423  1,879  2,210  2,486  423  1,879  2,210  2,486
5,550  5,600  426  1,896  2,230  2,509  426  1,896  2,230  2,509
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
(Continued)
46  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 47 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
5,600  5,650  430  1,913  2,250  2,531  430  1,913  2,250  2,531
5,650  5,700  434  1,930  2,270  2,554  434  1,930  2,270  2,554
5,700  5,750  438  1,947  2,290  2,576  438  1,947  2,290  2,576
5,750  5,800  442  1,964  2,310  2,599  442  1,964  2,310  2,599
5,800  5,850  446  1,981  2,330  2,621  446  1,981  2,330  2,621
5,850  5,900  449  1,998  2,350  2,644  449  1,998  2,350  2,644
5,900  5,950  453  2,015  2,370  2,666  453  2,015  2,370  2,666
5,950  6,000  457  2,032  2,390  2,689  457  2,032  2,390  2,689
6,000  6,050  461  2,049  2,410  2,711  461  2,049  2,410  2,711
6,050  6,100  465  2,066  2,430  2,734  465  2,066  2,430  2,734
6,100  6,150  469  2,083  2,450  2,756  469  2,083  2,450  2,756
6,150  6,200  472  2,100  2,470  2,779  472  2,100  2,470  2,779
6,200  6,250  476  2,117  2,490  2,801  476  2,117  2,490  2,801
6,250  6,300  480  2,134  2,510  2,824  480  2,134  2,510  2,824
6,300  6,350  484  2,151  2,530  2,846  484  2,151  2,530  2,846
6,350  6,400  488  2,168  2,550  2,869  488  2,168  2,550  2,869
6,400  6,450  492  2,185  2,570  2,891  492  2,185  2,570  2,891
6,450  6,500  495  2,202  2,590  2,914  495  2,202  2,590  2,914
6,500  6,550  499  2,219  2,610  2,936  499  2,219  2,610  2,936
6,550  6,600  503  2,236  2,630  2,959  503  2,236  2,630  2,959
6,600  6,650  507  2,253  2,650  2,981  507  2,253  2,650  2,981
6,650  6,700  511  2,270  2,670  3,004  511  2,270  2,670  3,004
6,700  6,750  514  2,287  2,690  3,026  514  2,287  2,690  3,026
6,750  6,800  518  2,304  2,710  3,049  518  2,304  2,710  3,049
6,800  6,850  522  2,321  2,730  3,071  522  2,321  2,730  3,071
6,850  6,900  526  2,338  2,750  3,094  526  2,338  2,750  3,094
6,900  6,950  530  2,355  2,770  3,116  530  2,355  2,770  3,116
6,950  7,000  534  2,372  2,790  3,139  534  2,372  2,790  3,139
7,000  7,050  537  2,389  2,810  3,161  537  2,389  2,810  3,161
7,050  7,100  541  2,406  2,830  3,184  541  2,406  2,830  3,184
7,100  7,150  545  2,423  2,850  3,206  545  2,423  2,850  3,206
7,150  7,200  549  2,440  2,870  3,229  549  2,440  2,870  3,229
7,200  7,250  553  2,457  2,890  3,251  553  2,457  2,890  3,251
7,250  7,300  557  2,474  2,910  3,274  557  2,474  2,910  3,274
7,300  7,350  560  2,491  2,930  3,296  560  2,491  2,930  3,296
7,350  7,400  564  2,508  2,950  3,319  564  2,508  2,950  3,319
7,400  7,450  568  2,525  2,970  3,341  568  2,525  2,970  3,341
7,450  7,500  572  2,542  2,990  3,364  572  2,542  2,990  3,364
7,500  7,550  576  2,559  3,010  3,386  576  2,559  3,010  3,386
7,550  7,600  579  2,576  3,030  3,409  579  2,576  3,030  3,409
7,600  7,650  583  2,593  3,050  3,431  583  2,593  3,050  3,431
7,650  7,700  587  2,610  3,070  3,454  587  2,610  3,070  3,454
7,700  7,750  591  2,627  3,090  3,476  591  2,627  3,090  3,476
7,750  7,800  595  2,644  3,110  3,499  595  2,644  3,110  3,499
7,800  7,850  599  2,661  3,130  3,521  599  2,661  3,130  3,521
7,850  7,900  602  2,678  3,150  3,544  602  2,678  3,150  3,544
7,900  7,950  606  2,695  3,170  3,566  606  2,695  3,170  3,566
7,950  8,000  610  2,712  3,190  3,589  610  2,712  3,190  3,589
8,000  8,050  614  2,729  3,210  3,611  614  2,729  3,210  3,611
8,050  8,100  618  2,746  3,230  3,634  618  2,746  3,230  3,634
8,100  8,150  622  2,763  3,250  3,656  622  2,763  3,250  3,656
8,150  8,200  625  2,780  3,270  3,679  625  2,780  3,270  3,679
8,200  8,250  629  2,797  3,290  3,701  629  2,797  3,290  3,701
8,250  8,300  632  2,814  3,310  3,724  632  2,814  3,310  3,724
8,300  8,350  632  2,831  3,330  3,746  632  2,831  3,330  3,746
8,350  8,400  632  2,848  3,350  3,769  632  2,848  3,350  3,769
8,400  8,450  632  2,865  3,370  3,791  632  2,865  3,370  3,791
8,450  8,500  632  2,882  3,390  3,814  632  2,882  3,390  3,814
8,500  8,550  632  2,899  3,410  3,836  632  2,899  3,410  3,836
8,550  8,600  632  2,916  3,430  3,859  632  2,916  3,430  3,859
8,600  8,650  632  2,933  3,450  3,881  632  2,933  3,450  3,881
8,650  8,700  632  2,950  3,470  3,904  632  2,950  3,470  3,904
8,700  8,750  632  2,967  3,490  3,926  632  2,967  3,490  3,926
8,750  8,800  632  2,984  3,510  3,949  632  2,984  3,510  3,949
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
8,800  8,850  632  3,001  3,530  3,971  632  3,001  3,530  3,971
8,850  8,900  632  3,018  3,550  3,994  632  3,018  3,550  3,994
8,900  8,950  632  3,035  3,570  4,016  632  3,035  3,570  4,016
8,950  9,000  632  3,052  3,590  4,039  632  3,052  3,590  4,039
9,000  9,050  632  3,069  3,610  4,061  632  3,069  3,610  4,061
9,050  9,100  632  3,086  3,630  4,084  632  3,086  3,630  4,084
9,100  9,150  632  3,103  3,650  4,106  632  3,103  3,650  4,106
9,150  9,200  632  3,120  3,670  4,129  632  3,120  3,670  4,129
9,200  9,250  632  3,137  3,690  4,151  632  3,137  3,690  4,151
9,250  9,300  632  3,154  3,710  4,174  632  3,154  3,710  4,174
9,300  9,350  632  3,171  3,730  4,196  632  3,171  3,730  4,196
9,350  9,400  632  3,188  3,750  4,219  632  3,188  3,750  4,219
9,400  9,450  632  3,205  3,770  4,241  632  3,205  3,770  4,241
9,450  9,500  632  3,222  3,790  4,264  632  3,222  3,790  4,264
9,500  9,550  632  3,239  3,810  4,286  632  3,239  3,810  4,286
9,550  9,600  632  3,256  3,830  4,309  632  3,256  3,830  4,309
9,600  9,650  632  3,273  3,850  4,331  632  3,273  3,850  4,331
9,650  9,700  632  3,290  3,870  4,354  632  3,290  3,870  4,354
9,700  9,750  632  3,307  3,890  4,376  632  3,307  3,890  4,376
9,750  9,800  632  3,324  3,910  4,399  632  3,324  3,910  4,399
9,800  9,850  632  3,341  3,930  4,421  632  3,341  3,930  4,421
9,850  9,900  632  3,358  3,950  4,444  632  3,358  3,950  4,444
9,900  9,950  632  3,375  3,970  4,466  632  3,375  3,970  4,466
9,950  10,000  632  3,392  3,990  4,489  632  3,392  3,990  4,489
10,000  10,050  632  3,409  4,010  4,511  632  3,409  4,010  4,511
10,050  10,100  632  3,426  4,030  4,534  632  3,426  4,030  4,534
10,100  10,150  632  3,443  4,050  4,556  632  3,443  4,050  4,556
10,150  10,200  632  3,460  4,070  4,579  632  3,460  4,070  4,579
10,200  10,250  632  3,477  4,090  4,601  632  3,477  4,090  4,601
10,250  10,300  632  3,494  4,110  4,624  632  3,494  4,110  4,624
10,300  10,350  632  3,511  4,130  4,646  632  3,511  4,130  4,646
10,350  10,400  629  3,528  4,150  4,669  632  3,528  4,150  4,669
10,400  10,450  625  3,545  4,170  4,691  632  3,545  4,170  4,691
10,450  10,500  621  3,562  4,190  4,714  632  3,562  4,190  4,714
10,500  10,550  617  3,579  4,210  4,736  632  3,579  4,210  4,736
10,550  10,600  613  3,596  4,230  4,759  632  3,596  4,230  4,759
10,600  10,650  609  3,613  4,250  4,781  632  3,613  4,250  4,781
10,650  10,700  606  3,630  4,270  4,804  632  3,630  4,270  4,804
10,700  10,750  602  3,647  4,290  4,826  632  3,647  4,290  4,826
10,750  10,800  598  3,664  4,310  4,849  632  3,664  4,310  4,849
10,800  10,850  594  3,681  4,330  4,871  632  3,681  4,330  4,871
10,850  10,900  590  3,698  4,350  4,894  632  3,698  4,350  4,894
10,900  10,950  586  3,715  4,370  4,916  632  3,715  4,370  4,916
10,950  11,000  583  3,732  4,390  4,939  632  3,732  4,390  4,939
11,000  11,050  579  3,749  4,410  4,961  632  3,749  4,410  4,961
11,050  11,100  575  3,766  4,430  4,984  632  3,766  4,430  4,984
11,100  11,150  571  3,783  4,450  5,006  632  3,783  4,450  5,006
11,150  11,200  567  3,800  4,470  5,029  632  3,800  4,470  5,029
11,200  11,250  564  3,817  4,490  5,051  632  3,817  4,490  5,051
11,250  11,300  560  3,834  4,510  5,074  632  3,834  4,510  5,074
11,300  11,350  556  3,851  4,530  5,096  632  3,851  4,530  5,096
11,350  11,400  552  3,868  4,550  5,119  632  3,868  4,550  5,119
11,400  11,450  548  3,885  4,570  5,141  632  3,885  4,570  5,141
11,450  11,500  544  3,902  4,590  5,164  632  3,902  4,590  5,164
11,500  11,550  541  3,919  4,610  5,186  632  3,919  4,610  5,186
11,550  11,600  537  3,936  4,630  5,209  632  3,936  4,630  5,209
11,600  11,650  533  3,953  4,650  5,231  632  3,953  4,650  5,231
11,650  11,700  529  3,970  4,670  5,254  632  3,970  4,670  5,254
11,700  11,750  525  3,987  4,690  5,276  632  3,987  4,690  5,276
11,750  11,800  521  4,004  4,710  5,299  632  4,004  4,710  5,299
11,800  11,850  518  4,021  4,730  5,321  632  4,021  4,730  5,321
11,850  11,900  514  4,038  4,750  5,344  632  4,038  4,750  5,344
11,900  11,950  510  4,055  4,770  5,366  632  4,055  4,770  5,366
11,950  12,000  506  4,072  4,790  5,389  632  4,072  4,790  5,389
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  47

=== PAGE 48 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
12,000  12,050  502  4,089  4,810  5,411  632  4,089  4,810  5,411
12,050  12,100  499  4,106  4,830  5,434  632  4,106  4,830  5,434
12,100  12,150  495  4,123  4,850  5,456  632  4,123  4,850  5,456
12,150  12,200  491  4,140  4,870  5,479  632  4,140  4,870  5,479
12,200  12,250  487  4,157  4,890  5,501  632  4,157  4,890  5,501
12,250  12,300  483  4,174  4,910  5,524  632  4,174  4,910  5,524
12,300  12,350  479  4,191  4,930  5,546  632  4,191  4,930  5,546
12,350  12,400  476  4,213  4,950  5,569  632  4,213  4,950  5,569
12,400  12,450  472  4,213  4,970  5,591  632  4,213  4,970  5,591
12,450  12,500  468  4,213  4,990  5,614  632  4,213  4,990  5,614
12,500  12,550  464  4,213  5,010  5,636  632  4,213  5,010  5,636
12,550  12,600  460  4,213  5,030  5,659  632  4,213  5,030  5,659
12,600  12,650  456  4,213  5,050  5,681  632  4,213  5,050  5,681
12,650  12,700  453  4,213  5,070  5,704  632  4,213  5,070  5,704
12,700  12,750  449  4,213  5,090  5,726  632  4,213  5,090  5,726
12,750  12,800  445  4,213  5,110  5,749  632  4,213  5,110  5,749
12,800  12,850  441  4,213  5,130  5,771  632  4,213  5,130  5,771
12,850  12,900  437  4,213  5,150  5,794  632  4,213  5,150  5,794
12,900  12,950  433  4,213  5,170  5,816  632  4,213  5,170  5,816
12,950  13,000  430  4,213  5,190  5,839  632  4,213  5,190  5,839
13,000  13,050  426  4,213  5,210  5,861  632  4,213  5,210  5,861
13,050  13,100  422  4,213  5,230  5,884  632  4,213  5,230  5,884
13,100  13,150  418  4,213  5,250  5,906  632  4,213  5,250  5,906
13,150  13,200  414  4,213  5,270  5,929  632  4,213  5,270  5,929
13,200  13,250  411  4,213  5,290  5,951  632  4,213  5,290  5,951
13,250  13,300  407  4,213  5,310  5,974  632  4,213  5,310  5,974
13,300  13,350  403  4,213  5,330  5,996  632  4,213  5,330  5,996
13,350  13,400  399  4,213  5,350  6,019  632  4,213  5,350  6,019
13,400  13,450  395  4,213  5,370  6,041  632  4,213  5,370  6,041
13,450  13,500  391  4,213  5,390  6,064  632  4,213  5,390  6,064
13,500  13,550  388  4,213  5,410  6,086  632  4,213  5,410  6,086
13,550  13,600  384  4,213  5,430  6,109  632  4,213  5,430  6,109
13,600  13,650  380  4,213  5,450  6,131  632  4,213  5,450  6,131
13,650  13,700  376  4,213  5,470  6,154  632  4,213  5,470  6,154
13,700  13,750  372  4,213  5,490  6,176  632  4,213  5,490  6,176
13,750  13,800  368  4,213  5,510  6,199  632  4,213  5,510  6,199
13,800  13,850  365  4,213  5,530  6,221  632  4,213  5,530  6,221
13,850  13,900  361  4,213  5,550  6,244  632  4,213  5,550  6,244
13,900  13,950  357  4,213  5,570  6,266  632  4,213  5,570  6,266
13,950  14,000  353  4,213  5,590  6,289  632  4,213  5,590  6,289
14,000  14,050  349  4,213  5,610  6,311  632  4,213  5,610  6,311
14,050  14,100  346  4,213  5,630  6,334  632  4,213  5,630  6,334
14,100  14,150  342  4,213  5,650  6,356  632  4,213  5,650  6,356
14,150  14,200  338  4,213  5,670  6,379  632  4,213  5,670  6,379
14,200  14,250  334  4,213  5,690  6,401  632  4,213  5,690  6,401
14,250  14,300  330  4,213  5,710  6,424  632  4,213  5,710  6,424
14,300  14,350  326  4,213  5,730  6,446  632  4,213  5,730  6,446
14,350  14,400  323  4,213  5,750  6,469  632  4,213  5,750  6,469
14,400  14,450  319  4,213  5,770  6,491  632  4,213  5,770  6,491
14,450  14,500  315  4,213  5,790  6,514  632  4,213  5,790  6,514
14,500  14,550  311  4,213  5,810  6,536  632  4,213  5,810  6,536
14,550  14,600  307  4,213  5,830  6,559  632  4,213  5,830  6,559
14,600  14,650  303  4,213  5,850  6,581  632  4,213  5,850  6,581
14,650  14,700  300  4,213  5,870  6,604  632  4,213  5,870  6,604
14,700  14,750  296  4,213  5,890  6,626  632  4,213  5,890  6,626
14,750  14,800  292  4,213  5,910  6,649  632  4,213  5,910  6,649
14,800  14,850  288  4,213  5,930  6,671  632  4,213  5,930  6,671
14,850  14,900  284  4,213  5,950  6,694  632  4,213  5,950  6,694
14,900  14,950  280  4,213  5,970  6,716  632  4,213  5,970  6,716
14,950  15,000  277  4,213  5,990  6,739  632  4,213  5,990  6,739
15,000  15,050  273  4,213  6,010  6,761  632  4,213  6,010  6,761
15,050  15,100  269  4,213  6,030  6,784  632  4,213  6,030  6,784
15,100  15,150  265  4,213  6,050  6,806  632  4,213  6,050  6,806
15,150  15,200  261  4,213  6,070  6,829  632  4,213  6,070  6,829
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
15,200  15,250  258  4,213  6,090  6,851  632  4,213  6,090  6,851
15,250  15,300  254  4,213  6,110  6,874  632  4,213  6,110  6,874
15,300  15,350  250  4,213  6,130  6,896  632  4,213  6,130  6,896
15,350  15,400  246  4,213  6,150  6,919  632  4,213  6,150  6,919
15,400  15,450  242  4,213  6,170  6,941  632  4,213  6,170  6,941
15,450  15,500  238  4,213  6,190  6,964  632  4,213  6,190  6,964
15,500  15,550  235  4,213  6,210  6,986  632  4,213  6,210  6,986
15,550  15,600  231  4,213  6,230  7,009  632  4,213  6,230  7,009
15,600  15,650  227  4,213  6,250  7,031  632  4,213  6,250  7,031
15,650  15,700  223  4,213  6,270  7,054  632  4,213  6,270  7,054
15,700  15,750  219  4,213  6,290  7,076  632  4,213  6,290  7,076
15,750  15,800  215  4,213  6,310  7,099  632  4,213  6,310  7,099
15,800  15,850  212  4,213  6,330  7,121  632  4,213  6,330  7,121
15,850  15,900  208  4,213  6,350  7,144  632  4,213  6,350  7,144
15,900  15,950  204  4,213  6,370  7,166  632  4,213  6,370  7,166
15,950  16,000  200  4,213  6,390  7,189  632  4,213  6,390  7,189
16,000  16,050  196  4,213  6,410  7,211  632  4,213  6,410  7,211
16,050  16,100  193  4,213  6,430  7,234  632  4,213  6,430  7,234
16,100  16,150  189  4,213  6,450  7,256  632  4,213  6,450  7,256
16,150  16,200  185  4,213  6,470  7,279  632  4,213  6,470  7,279
16,200  16,250  181  4,213  6,490  7,301  632  4,213  6,490  7,301
16,250  16,300  177  4,213  6,510  7,324  632  4,213  6,510  7,324
16,300  16,350  173  4,213  6,530  7,346  632  4,213  6,530  7,346
16,350  16,400  170  4,213  6,550  7,369  632  4,213  6,550  7,369
16,400  16,450  166  4,213  6,570  7,391  632  4,213  6,570  7,391
16,450  16,500  162  4,213  6,590  7,414  632  4,213  6,590  7,414
16,500  16,550  158  4,213  6,610  7,436  632  4,213  6,610  7,436
16,550  16,600  154  4,213  6,630  7,459  632  4,213  6,630  7,459
16,600  16,650  150  4,213  6,650  7,481  632  4,213  6,650  7,481
16,650  16,700  147  4,213  6,670  7,504  632  4,213  6,670  7,504
16,700  16,750  143  4,213  6,690  7,526  632  4,213  6,690  7,526
16,750  16,800  139  4,213  6,710  7,549  632  4,213  6,710  7,549
16,800  16,850  135  4,213  6,730  7,571  632  4,213  6,730  7,571
16,850  16,900  131  4,213  6,750  7,594  632  4,213  6,750  7,594
16,900  16,950  127  4,213  6,770  7,616  632  4,213  6,770  7,616
16,950  17,000  124  4,213  6,790  7,639  632  4,213  6,790  7,639
17,000  17,050  120  4,213  6,810  7,661  632  4,213  6,810  7,661
17,050  17,100  116  4,213  6,830  7,684  632  4,213  6,830  7,684
17,100  17,150  112  4,213  6,850  7,706  632  4,213  6,850  7,706
17,150  17,200  108  4,213  6,870  7,729  632  4,213  6,870  7,729
17,200  17,250  105  4,213  6,890  7,751  632  4,213  6,890  7,751
17,250  17,300  101  4,213  6,910  7,774  630  4,213  6,910  7,774
17,300  17,350  97  4,213  6,930  7,796  626  4,213  6,930  7,796
17,350  17,400  93  4,213  6,950  7,819  622  4,213  6,950  7,819
17,400  17,450  89  4,213  6,960  7,830  619  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,450  17,500  85  4,213  6,960  7,830  615  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,500  17,550  82  4,213  6,960  7,830  611  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,550  17,600  78  4,213  6,960  7,830  607  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,600  17,650  74  4,213  6,960  7,830  603  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,650  17,700  70  4,213  6,960  7,830  599  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,700  17,750  66  4,213  6,960  7,830  596  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,750  17,800  62  4,213  6,960  7,830  592  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,800  17,850  59  4,213  6,960  7,830  588  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,850  17,900  55  4,213  6,960  7,830  584  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,900  17,950  51  4,213  6,960  7,830  580  4,213  6,960  7,830
17,950  18,000  47  4,213  6,960  7,830  577  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,000  18,050  43  4,213  6,960  7,830  573  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,050  18,100  40  4,213  6,960  7,830  569  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,100  18,150  36  4,213  6,960  7,830  565  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,150  18,200  32  4,213  6,960  7,830  561  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,200  18,250  28  4,213  6,960  7,830  557  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,250  18,300  24  4,213  6,960  7,830  554  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,300  18,350  20  4,213  6,960  7,830  550  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,350  18,400  17  4,213  6,960  7,830  546  4,213  6,960  7,830
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
48  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 49 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
18,400  18,450  13  4,213  6,960  7,830  542  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,450  18,500  9  4,213  6,960  7,830  538  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,500  18,550  5  4,213  6,960  7,830  534  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,550  18,600  *  4,213  6,960  7,830  531  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,600  18,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  527  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,650  18,700  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  523  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,700  18,750  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  519  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,750  18,800  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  515  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,800  18,850  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  512  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,850  18,900  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  508  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,900  18,950  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  504  4,213  6,960  7,830
18,950  19,000  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  500  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,000  19,050  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  496  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,050  19,100  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  492  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,100  19,150  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  489  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,150  19,200  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  485  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,200  19,250  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  481  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,250  19,300  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  477  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,300  19,350  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  473  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,350  19,400  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  469  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,400  19,450  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  466  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,450  19,500  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  462  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,500  19,550  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  458  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,550  19,600  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  454  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,600  19,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  450  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,650  19,700  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  446  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,700  19,750  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  443  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,750  19,800  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  439  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,800  19,850  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  435  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,850  19,900  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  431  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,900  19,950  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  427  4,213  6,960  7,830
19,950  20,000  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  424  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,000  20,050  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  420  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,050  20,100  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  416  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,100  20,150  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  412  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,150  20,200  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  408  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,200  20,250  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  404  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,250  20,300  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  401  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,300  20,350  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  397  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,350  20,400  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  393  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,400  20,450  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  389  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,450  20,500  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  385  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,500  20,550  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  381  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,550  20,600  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  378  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,600  20,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  374  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,650  20,700  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  370  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,700  20,750  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  366  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,750  20,800  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  362  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,800  20,850  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  359  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,850  20,900  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  355  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,900  20,950  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  351  4,213  6,960  7,830
20,950  21,000  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  347  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,000  21,050  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  343  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,050  21,100  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  339  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,100  21,150  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  336  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,150  21,200  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  332  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,200  21,250  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  328  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,250  21,300  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  324  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,300  21,350  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  320  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,350  21,400  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  316  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,400  21,450  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  313  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,450  21,500  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  309  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,500  21,550  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  305  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,550  21,600  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  301  4,213  6,960  7,830
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
21,600  21,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  297  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,650  21,700  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  293  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,700  21,750  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  290  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,750  21,800  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  286  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,800  21,850  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  282  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,850  21,900  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  278  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,900  21,950  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  274  4,213  6,960  7,830
21,950  22,000  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  271  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,000  22,050  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  267  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,050  22,100  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  263  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,100  22,150  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  259  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,150  22,200  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  255  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,200  22,250  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  251  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,250  22,300  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  248  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,300  22,350  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  244  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,350  22,400  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  240  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,400  22,450  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  236  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,450  22,500  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  232  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,500  22,550  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  228  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,550  22,600  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  225  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,600  22,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  221  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,650  22,700  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  217  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,700  22,750  0  4,213  6,960  7,830  213  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,750  22,800  0  4,204  6,948  7,818  209  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,800  22,850  0  4,196  6,938  7,808  206  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,850  22,900  0  4,188  6,927  7,797  202  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,900  22,950  0  4,180  6,917  7,787  198  4,213  6,960  7,830
22,950  23,000  0  4,172  6,906  7,776  194  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,000  23,050  0  4,164  6,896  7,766  190  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,050  23,100  0  4,156  6,885  7,755  186  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,100  23,150  0  4,148  6,875  7,745  183  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,150  23,200  0  4,140  6,864  7,734  179  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,200  23,250  0  4,132  6,854  7,724  175  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,250  23,300  0  4,124  6,843  7,713  171  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,300  23,350  0  4,116  6,833  7,703  167  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,350  23,400  0  4,108  6,822  7,692  163  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,400  23,450  0  4,100  6,812  7,682  160  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,450  23,500  0  4,092  6,801  7,671  156  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,500  23,550  0  4,084  6,790  7,660  152  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,550  23,600  0  4,076  6,780  7,650  148  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,600  23,650  0  4,068  6,769  7,639  144  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,650  23,700  0  4,060  6,759  7,629  140  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,700  23,750  0  4,052  6,748  7,618  137  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,750  23,800  0  4,044  6,738  7,608  133  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,800  23,850  0  4,036  6,727  7,597  129  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,850  23,900  0  4,028  6,717  7,587  125  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,900  23,950  0  4,020  6,706  7,576  121  4,213  6,960  7,830
23,950  24,000  0  4,012  6,696  7,566  118  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,000  24,050  0  4,004  6,685  7,555  114  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,050  24,100  0  3,996  6,675  7,545  110  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,100  24,150  0  3,988  6,664  7,534  106  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,150  24,200  0  3,980  6,654  7,524  102  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,200  24,250  0  3,973  6,643  7,513  98  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,250  24,300  0  3,965  6,633  7,503  95  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,300  24,350  0  3,957  6,622  7,492  91  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,350  24,400  0  3,949  6,611  7,481  87  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,400  24,450  0  3,941  6,601  7,471  83  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,450  24,500  0  3,933  6,590  7,460  79  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,500  24,550  0  3,925  6,580  7,450  75  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,550  24,600  0  3,917  6,569  7,439  72  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,600  24,650  0  3,909  6,559  7,429  68  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,650  24,700  0  3,901  6,548  7,418  64  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,700  24,750  0  3,893  6,538  7,408  60  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,750  24,800  0  3,885  6,527  7,397  56  4,213  6,960  7,830
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $18,550 but less than $18,591, and you have no qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $18,591 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the
credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  49

=== PAGE 50 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
24,800  24,850  0  3,877  6,517  7,387  53  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,850  24,900  0  3,869  6,506  7,376  49  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,900  24,950  0  3,861  6,496  7,366  45  4,213  6,960  7,830
24,950  25,000  0  3,853  6,485  7,355  41  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,000  25,050  0  3,845  6,475  7,345  37  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,050  25,100  0  3,837  6,464  7,334  33  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,100  25,150  0  3,829  6,454  7,324  30  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,150  25,200  0  3,821  6,443  7,313  26  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,200  25,250  0  3,813  6,432  7,302  22  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,250  25,300  0  3,805  6,422  7,292  18  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,300  25,350  0  3,797  6,411  7,281  14  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,350  25,400  0  3,789  6,401  7,271  10  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,400  25,450  0  3,781  6,390  7,260  7  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,450  25,500  0  3,773  6,380  7,250  3  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,500  25,550  0  3,765  6,369  7,239  *  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,550  25,600  0  3,757  6,359  7,229  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,600  25,650  0  3,749  6,348  7,218  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,650  25,700  0  3,741  6,338  7,208  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,700  25,750  0  3,733  6,327  7,197  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,750  25,800  0  3,725  6,317  7,187  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,800  25,850  0  3,717  6,306  7,176  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,850  25,900  0  3,709  6,296  7,166  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,900  25,950  0  3,701  6,285  7,155  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
25,950  26,000  0  3,693  6,274  7,144  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,000  26,050  0  3,685  6,264  7,134  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,050  26,100  0  3,677  6,253  7,123  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,100  26,150  0  3,669  6,243  7,113  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,150  26,200  0  3,661  6,232  7,102  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,200  26,250  0  3,653  6,222  7,092  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,250  26,300  0  3,645  6,211  7,081  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,300  26,350  0  3,637  6,201  7,071  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,350  26,400  0  3,629  6,190  7,060  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,400  26,450  0  3,621  6,180  7,050  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,450  26,500  0  3,613  6,169  7,039  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,500  26,550  0  3,605  6,159  7,029  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,550  26,600  0  3,597  6,148  7,018  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,600  26,650  0  3,589  6,138  7,008  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,650  26,700  0  3,581  6,127  6,997  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,700  26,750  0  3,573  6,117  6,987  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,750  26,800  0  3,565  6,106  6,976  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,800  26,850  0  3,557  6,095  6,965  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,850  26,900  0  3,549  6,085  6,955  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,900  26,950  0  3,541  6,074  6,944  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
26,950  27,000  0  3,533  6,064  6,934  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,000  27,050  0  3,525  6,053  6,923  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,050  27,100  0  3,517  6,043  6,913  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,100  27,150  0  3,509  6,032  6,902  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,150  27,200  0  3,501  6,022  6,892  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,200  27,250  0  3,493  6,011  6,881  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,250  27,300  0  3,485  6,001  6,871  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,300  27,350  0  3,477  5,990  6,860  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,350  27,400  0  3,469  5,980  6,850  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,400  27,450  0  3,461  5,969  6,839  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,450  27,500  0  3,453  5,959  6,829  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,500  27,550  0  3,445  5,948  6,818  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,550  27,600  0  3,437  5,938  6,808  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,600  27,650  0  3,429  5,927  6,797  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,650  27,700  0  3,421  5,916  6,786  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,700  27,750  0  3,413  5,906  6,776  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,750  27,800  0  3,405  5,895  6,765  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,800  27,850  0  3,397  5,885  6,755  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,850  27,900  0  3,389  5,874  6,744  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,900  27,950  0  3,381  5,864  6,734  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
27,950  28,000  0  3,373  5,853  6,723  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
28,000  28,050  0  3,365  5,843  6,713  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,050  28,100  0  3,357  5,832  6,702  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,100  28,150  0  3,349  5,822  6,692  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,150  28,200  0  3,341  5,811  6,681  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,200  28,250  0  3,333  5,801  6,671  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,250  28,300  0  3,325  5,790  6,660  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,300  28,350  0  3,317  5,780  6,650  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,350  28,400  0  3,309  5,769  6,639  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,400  28,450  0  3,301  5,759  6,629  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,450  28,500  0  3,293  5,748  6,618  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,500  28,550  0  3,285  5,737  6,607  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,550  28,600  0  3,277  5,727  6,597  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,600  28,650  0  3,269  5,716  6,586  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,650  28,700  0  3,261  5,706  6,576  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,700  28,750  0  3,253  5,695  6,565  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,750  28,800  0  3,245  5,685  6,555  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,800  28,850  0  3,237  5,674  6,544  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,850  28,900  0  3,229  5,664  6,534  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,900  28,950  0  3,221  5,653  6,523  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
28,950  29,000  0  3,213  5,643  6,513  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,000  29,050  0  3,205  5,632  6,502  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,050  29,100  0  3,197  5,622  6,492  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,100  29,150  0  3,189  5,611  6,481  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,150  29,200  0  3,181  5,601  6,471  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,200  29,250  0  3,174  5,590  6,460  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,250  29,300  0  3,166  5,580  6,450  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,300  29,350  0  3,158  5,569  6,439  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,350  29,400  0  3,150  5,558  6,428  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,400  29,450  0  3,142  5,548  6,418  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,450  29,500  0  3,134  5,537  6,407  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,500  29,550  0  3,126  5,527  6,397  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,550  29,600  0  3,118  5,516  6,386  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,600  29,650  0  3,110  5,506  6,376  0  4,213  6,960  7,830
29,650  29,700  0  3,102  5,495  6,365  0  4,207  6,953  7,823
29,700  29,750  0  3,094  5,485  6,355  0  4,199  6,942  7,812
29,750  29,800  0  3,086  5,474  6,344  0  4,191  6,932  7,802
29,800  29,850  0  3,078  5,464  6,334  0  4,183  6,921  7,791
29,850  29,900  0  3,070  5,453  6,323  0  4,175  6,911  7,781
29,900  29,950  0  3,062  5,443  6,313  0  4,167  6,900  7,770
29,950  30,000  0  3,054  5,432  6,302  0  4,159  6,889  7,759
30,000  30,050  0  3,046  5,422  6,292  0  4,151  6,879  7,749
30,050  30,100  0  3,038  5,411  6,281  0  4,143  6,868  7,738
30,100  30,150  0  3,030  5,401  6,271  0  4,135  6,858  7,728
30,150  30,200  0  3,022  5,390  6,260  0  4,128  6,847  7,717
30,200  30,250  0  3,014  5,379  6,249  0  4,120  6,837  7,707
30,250  30,300  0  3,006  5,369  6,239  0  4,112  6,826  7,696
30,300  30,350  0  2,998  5,358  6,228  0  4,104  6,816  7,686
30,350  30,400  0  2,990  5,348  6,218  0  4,096  6,805  7,675
30,400  30,450  0  2,982  5,337  6,207  0  4,088  6,795  7,665
30,450  30,500  0  2,974  5,327  6,197  0  4,080  6,784  7,654
30,500  30,550  0  2,966  5,316  6,186  0  4,072  6,774  7,644
30,550  30,600  0  2,958  5,306  6,176  0  4,064  6,763  7,633
30,600  30,650  0  2,950  5,295  6,165  0  4,056  6,753  7,623
30,650  30,700  0  2,942  5,285  6,155  0  4,048  6,742  7,612
30,700  30,750  0  2,934  5,274  6,144  0  4,040  6,731  7,601
30,750  30,800  0  2,926  5,264  6,134  0  4,032  6,721  7,591
30,800  30,850  0  2,918  5,253  6,123  0  4,024  6,710  7,580
30,850  30,900  0  2,910  5,243  6,113  0  4,016  6,700  7,570
30,900  30,950  0  2,902  5,232  6,102  0  4,008  6,689  7,559
30,950  31,000  0  2,894  5,221  6,091  0  4,000  6,679  7,549
31,000  31,050  0  2,886  5,211  6,081  0  3,992  6,668  7,538
31,050  31,100  0  2,878  5,200  6,070  0  3,984  6,658  7,528
31,100  31,150  0  2,870  5,190  6,060  0  3,976  6,647  7,517
31,150  31,200  0  2,862  5,179  6,049  0  3,968  6,637  7,507
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $25,500 but less than $25,511, and you have no qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $0.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $25,511 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the
credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
50  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 51 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
31,200  31,250  0  2,854  5,169  6,039  0  3,960  6,626  7,496
31,250  31,300  0  2,846  5,158  6,028  0  3,952  6,616  7,486
31,300  31,350  0  2,838  5,148  6,018  0  3,944  6,605  7,475
31,350  31,400  0  2,830  5,137  6,007  0  3,936  6,595  7,465
31,400  31,450  0  2,822  5,127  5,997  0  3,928  6,584  7,454
31,450  31,500  0  2,814  5,116  5,986  0  3,920  6,574  7,444
31,500  31,550  0  2,806  5,106  5,976  0  3,912  6,563  7,433
31,550  31,600  0  2,798  5,095  5,965  0  3,904  6,552  7,422
31,600  31,650  0  2,790  5,085  5,955  0  3,896  6,542  7,412
31,650  31,700  0  2,782  5,074  5,944  0  3,888  6,531  7,401
31,700  31,750  0  2,774  5,064  5,934  0  3,880  6,521  7,391
31,750  31,800  0  2,766  5,053  5,923  0  3,872  6,510  7,380
31,800  31,850  0  2,758  5,042  5,912  0  3,864  6,500  7,370
31,850  31,900  0  2,750  5,032  5,902  0  3,856  6,489  7,359
31,900  31,950  0  2,742  5,021  5,891  0  3,848  6,479  7,349
31,950  32,000  0  2,734  5,011  5,881  0  3,840  6,468  7,338
32,000  32,050  0  2,726  5,000  5,870  0  3,832  6,458  7,328
32,050  32,100  0  2,718  4,990  5,860  0  3,824  6,447  7,317
32,100  32,150  0  2,710  4,979  5,849  0  3,816  6,437  7,307
32,150  32,200  0  2,702  4,969  5,839  0  3,808  6,426  7,296
32,200  32,250  0  2,694  4,958  5,828  0  3,800  6,416  7,286
32,250  32,300  0  2,686  4,948  5,818  0  3,792  6,405  7,275
32,300  32,350  0  2,678  4,937  5,807  0  3,784  6,395  7,265
32,350  32,400  0  2,670  4,927  5,797  0  3,776  6,384  7,254
32,400  32,450  0  2,662  4,916  5,786  0  3,768  6,373  7,243
32,450  32,500  0  2,654  4,906  5,776  0  3,760  6,363  7,233
32,500  32,550  0  2,646  4,895  5,765  0  3,752  6,352  7,222
32,550  32,600  0  2,638  4,885  5,755  0  3,744  6,342  7,212
32,600  32,650  0  2,630  4,874  5,744  0  3,736  6,331  7,201
32,650  32,700  0  2,622  4,863  5,733  0  3,728  6,321  7,191
32,700  32,750  0  2,614  4,853  5,723  0  3,720  6,310  7,180
32,750  32,800  0  2,606  4,842  5,712  0  3,712  6,300  7,170
32,800  32,850  0  2,598  4,832  5,702  0  3,704  6,289  7,159
32,850  32,900  0  2,590  4,821  5,691  0  3,696  6,279  7,149
32,900  32,950  0  2,582  4,811  5,681  0  3,688  6,268  7,138
32,950  33,000  0  2,574  4,800  5,670  0  3,680  6,258  7,128
33,000  33,050  0  2,566  4,790  5,660  0  3,672  6,247  7,117
33,050  33,100  0  2,558  4,779  5,649  0  3,664  6,237  7,107
33,100  33,150  0  2,550  4,769  5,639  0  3,656  6,226  7,096
33,150  33,200  0  2,542  4,758  5,628  0  3,648  6,216  7,086
33,200  33,250  0  2,534  4,748  5,618  0  3,640  6,205  7,075
33,250  33,300  0  2,526  4,737  5,607  0  3,632  6,194  7,064
33,300  33,350  0  2,518  4,727  5,597  0  3,624  6,184  7,054
33,350  33,400  0  2,510  4,716  5,586  0  3,616  6,173  7,043
33,400  33,450  0  2,502  4,706  5,576  0  3,608  6,163  7,033
33,450  33,500  0  2,494  4,695  5,565  0  3,600  6,152  7,022
33,500  33,550  0  2,486  4,684  5,554  0  3,592  6,142  7,012
33,550  33,600  0  2,478  4,674  5,544  0  3,584  6,131  7,001
33,600  33,650  0  2,470  4,663  5,533  0  3,576  6,121  6,991
33,650  33,700  0  2,462  4,653  5,523  0  3,568  6,110  6,980
33,700  33,750  0  2,454  4,642  5,512  0  3,560  6,100  6,970
33,750  33,800  0  2,446  4,632  5,502  0  3,552  6,089  6,959
33,800  33,850  0  2,438  4,621  5,491  0  3,544  6,079  6,949
33,850  33,900  0  2,430  4,611  5,481  0  3,536  6,068  6,938
33,900  33,950  0  2,422  4,600  5,470  0  3,528  6,058  6,928
33,950  34,000  0  2,414  4,590  5,460  0  3,520  6,047  6,917
34,000  34,050  0  2,406  4,579  5,449  0  3,512  6,037  6,907
34,050  34,100  0  2,398  4,569  5,439  0  3,504  6,026  6,896
34,100  34,150  0  2,390  4,558  5,428  0  3,496  6,015  6,885
34,150  34,200  0  2,382  4,548  5,418  0  3,488  6,005  6,875
34,200  34,250  0  2,375  4,537  5,407  0  3,480  5,994  6,864
34,250  34,300  0  2,367  4,527  5,397  0  3,472  5,984  6,854
34,300  34,350  0  2,359  4,516  5,386  0  3,464  5,973  6,843
34,350  34,400  0  2,351  4,505  5,375  0  3,456  5,963  6,833
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
34,400  34,450  0  2,343  4,495  5,365  0  3,448  5,952  6,822
34,450  34,500  0  2,335  4,484  5,354  0  3,440  5,942  6,812
34,500  34,550  0  2,327  4,474  5,344  0  3,432  5,931  6,801
34,550  34,600  0  2,319  4,463  5,333  0  3,424  5,921  6,791
34,600  34,650  0  2,311  4,453  5,323  0  3,416  5,910  6,780
34,650  34,700  0  2,303  4,442  5,312  0  3,408  5,900  6,770
34,700  34,750  0  2,295  4,432  5,302  0  3,400  5,889  6,759
34,750  34,800  0  2,287  4,421  5,291  0  3,392  5,879  6,749
34,800  34,850  0  2,279  4,411  5,281  0  3,384  5,868  6,738
34,850  34,900  0  2,271  4,400  5,270  0  3,376  5,858  6,728
34,900  34,950  0  2,263  4,390  5,260  0  3,368  5,847  6,717
34,950  35,000  0  2,255  4,379  5,249  0  3,360  5,836  6,706
35,000  35,050  0  2,247  4,369  5,239  0  3,352  5,826  6,696
35,050  35,100  0  2,239  4,358  5,228  0  3,344  5,815  6,685
35,100  35,150  0  2,231  4,348  5,218  0  3,336  5,805  6,675
35,150  35,200  0  2,223  4,337  5,207  0  3,329  5,794  6,664
35,200  35,250  0  2,215  4,326  5,196  0  3,321  5,784  6,654
35,250  35,300  0  2,207  4,316  5,186  0  3,313  5,773  6,643
35,300  35,350  0  2,199  4,305  5,175  0  3,305  5,763  6,633
35,350  35,400  0  2,191  4,295  5,165  0  3,297  5,752  6,622
35,400  35,450  0  2,183  4,284  5,154  0  3,289  5,742  6,612
35,450  35,500  0  2,175  4,274  5,144  0  3,281  5,731  6,601
35,500  35,550  0  2,167  4,263  5,133  0  3,273  5,721  6,591
35,550  35,600  0  2,159  4,253  5,123  0  3,265  5,710  6,580
35,600  35,650  0  2,151  4,242  5,112  0  3,257  5,700  6,570
35,650  35,700  0  2,143  4,232  5,102  0  3,249  5,689  6,559
35,700  35,750  0  2,135  4,221  5,091  0  3,241  5,678  6,548
35,750  35,800  0  2,127  4,211  5,081  0  3,233  5,668  6,538
35,800  35,850  0  2,119  4,200  5,070  0  3,225  5,657  6,527
35,850  35,900  0  2,111  4,190  5,060  0  3,217  5,647  6,517
35,900  35,950  0  2,103  4,179  5,049  0  3,209  5,636  6,506
35,950  36,000  0  2,095  4,168  5,038  0  3,201  5,626  6,496
36,000  36,050  0  2,087  4,158  5,028  0  3,193  5,615  6,485
36,050  36,100  0  2,079  4,147  5,017  0  3,185  5,605  6,475
36,100  36,150  0  2,071  4,137  5,007  0  3,177  5,594  6,464
36,150  36,200  0  2,063  4,126  4,996  0  3,169  5,584  6,454
36,200  36,250  0  2,055  4,116  4,986  0  3,161  5,573  6,443
36,250  36,300  0  2,047  4,105  4,975  0  3,153  5,563  6,433
36,300  36,350  0  2,039  4,095  4,965  0  3,145  5,552  6,422
36,350  36,400  0  2,031  4,084  4,954  0  3,137  5,542  6,412
36,400  36,450  0  2,023  4,074  4,944  0  3,129  5,531  6,401
36,450  36,500  0  2,015  4,063  4,933  0  3,121  5,521  6,391
36,500  36,550  0  2,007  4,053  4,923  0  3,113  5,510  6,380
36,550  36,600  0  1,999  4,042  4,912  0  3,105  5,499  6,369
36,600  36,650  0  1,991  4,032  4,902  0  3,097  5,489  6,359
36,650  36,700  0  1,983  4,021  4,891  0  3,089  5,478  6,348
36,700  36,750  0  1,975  4,011  4,881  0  3,081  5,468  6,338
36,750  36,800  0  1,967  4,000  4,870  0  3,073  5,457  6,327
36,800  36,850  0  1,959  3,989  4,859  0  3,065  5,447  6,317
36,850  36,900  0  1,951  3,979  4,849  0  3,057  5,436  6,306
36,900  36,950  0  1,943  3,968  4,838  0  3,049  5,426  6,296
36,950  37,000  0  1,935  3,958  4,828  0  3,041  5,415  6,285
37,000  37,050  0  1,927  3,947  4,817  0  3,033  5,405  6,275
37,050  37,100  0  1,919  3,937  4,807  0  3,025  5,394  6,264
37,100  37,150  0  1,911  3,926  4,796  0  3,017  5,384  6,254
37,150  37,200  0  1,903  3,916  4,786  0  3,009  5,373  6,243
37,200  37,250  0  1,895  3,905  4,775  0  3,001  5,363  6,233
37,250  37,300  0  1,887  3,895  4,765  0  2,993  5,352  6,222
37,300  37,350  0  1,879  3,884  4,754  0  2,985  5,342  6,212
37,350  37,400  0  1,871  3,874  4,744  0  2,977  5,331  6,201
37,400  37,450  0  1,863  3,863  4,733  0  2,969  5,320  6,190
37,450  37,500  0  1,855  3,853  4,723  0  2,961  5,310  6,180
37,500  37,550  0  1,847  3,842  4,712  0  2,953  5,299  6,169
37,550  37,600  0  1,839  3,832  4,702  0  2,945  5,289  6,159
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  51

=== PAGE 52 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
37,600  37,650  0  1,831  3,821  4,691  0  2,937  5,278  6,148
37,650  37,700  0  1,823  3,810  4,680  0  2,929  5,268  6,138
37,700  37,750  0  1,815  3,800  4,670  0  2,921  5,257  6,127
37,750  37,800  0  1,807  3,789  4,659  0  2,913  5,247  6,117
37,800  37,850  0  1,799  3,779  4,649  0  2,905  5,236  6,106
37,850  37,900  0  1,791  3,768  4,638  0  2,897  5,226  6,096
37,900  37,950  0  1,783  3,758  4,628  0  2,889  5,215  6,085
37,950  38,000  0  1,775  3,747  4,617  0  2,881  5,205  6,075
38,000  38,050  0  1,767  3,737  4,607  0  2,873  5,194  6,064
38,050  38,100  0  1,759  3,726  4,596  0  2,865  5,184  6,054
38,100  38,150  0  1,751  3,716  4,586  0  2,857  5,173  6,043
38,150  38,200  0  1,743  3,705  4,575  0  2,849  5,163  6,033
38,200  38,250  0  1,735  3,695  4,565  0  2,841  5,152  6,022
38,250  38,300  0  1,727  3,684  4,554  0  2,833  5,141  6,011
38,300  38,350  0  1,719  3,674  4,544  0  2,825  5,131  6,001
38,350  38,400  0  1,711  3,663  4,533  0  2,817  5,120  5,990
38,400  38,450  0  1,703  3,653  4,523  0  2,809  5,110  5,980
38,450  38,500  0  1,695  3,642  4,512  0  2,801  5,099  5,969
38,500  38,550  0  1,687  3,631  4,501  0  2,793  5,089  5,959
38,550  38,600  0  1,679  3,621  4,491  0  2,785  5,078  5,948
38,600  38,650  0  1,671  3,610  4,480  0  2,777  5,068  5,938
38,650  38,700  0  1,663  3,600  4,470  0  2,769  5,057  5,927
38,700  38,750  0  1,655  3,589  4,459  0  2,761  5,047  5,917
38,750  38,800  0  1,647  3,579  4,449  0  2,753  5,036  5,906
38,800  38,850  0  1,639  3,568  4,438  0  2,745  5,026  5,896
38,850  38,900  0  1,631  3,558  4,428  0  2,737  5,015  5,885
38,900  38,950  0  1,623  3,547  4,417  0  2,729  5,005  5,875
38,950  39,000  0  1,615  3,537  4,407  0  2,721  4,994  5,864
39,000  39,050  0  1,607  3,526  4,396  0  2,713  4,984  5,854
39,050  39,100  0  1,599  3,516  4,386  0  2,705  4,973  5,843
39,100  39,150  0  1,591  3,505  4,375  0  2,697  4,962  5,832
39,150  39,200  0  1,583  3,495  4,365  0  2,689  4,952  5,822
39,200  39,250  0  1,576  3,484  4,354  0  2,681  4,941  5,811
39,250  39,300  0  1,568  3,474  4,344  0  2,673  4,931  5,801
39,300  39,350  0  1,560  3,463  4,333  0  2,665  4,920  5,790
39,350  39,400  0  1,552  3,452  4,322  0  2,657  4,910  5,780
39,400  39,450  0  1,544  3,442  4,312  0  2,649  4,899  5,769
39,450  39,500  0  1,536  3,431  4,301  0  2,641  4,889  5,759
39,500  39,550  0  1,528  3,421  4,291  0  2,633  4,878  5,748
39,550  39,600  0  1,520  3,410  4,280  0  2,625  4,868  5,738
39,600  39,650  0  1,512  3,400  4,270  0  2,617  4,857  5,727
39,650  39,700  0  1,504  3,389  4,259  0  2,609  4,847  5,717
39,700  39,750  0  1,496  3,379  4,249  0  2,601  4,836  5,706
39,750  39,800  0  1,488  3,368  4,238  0  2,593  4,826  5,696
39,800  39,850  0  1,480  3,358  4,228  0  2,585  4,815  5,685
39,850  39,900  0  1,472  3,347  4,217  0  2,577  4,805  5,675
39,900  39,950  0  1,464  3,337  4,207  0  2,569  4,794  5,664
39,950  40,000  0  1,456  3,326  4,196  0  2,561  4,783  5,653
40,000  40,050  0  1,448  3,316  4,186  0  2,553  4,773  5,643
40,050  40,100  0  1,440  3,305  4,175  0  2,545  4,762  5,632
40,100  40,150  0  1,432  3,295  4,165  0  2,537  4,752  5,622
40,150  40,200  0  1,424  3,284  4,154  0  2,530  4,741  5,611
40,200  40,250  0  1,416  3,273  4,143  0  2,522  4,731  5,601
40,250  40,300  0  1,408  3,263  4,133  0  2,514  4,720  5,590
40,300  40,350  0  1,400  3,252  4,122  0  2,506  4,710  5,580
40,350  40,400  0  1,392  3,242  4,112  0  2,498  4,699  5,569
40,400  40,450  0  1,384  3,231  4,101  0  2,490  4,689  5,559
40,450  40,500  0  1,376  3,221  4,091  0  2,482  4,678  5,548
40,500  40,550  0  1,368  3,210  4,080  0  2,474  4,668  5,538
40,550  40,600  0  1,360  3,200  4,070  0  2,466  4,657  5,527
40,600  40,650  0  1,352  3,189  4,059  0  2,458  4,647  5,517
40,650  40,700  0  1,344  3,179  4,049  0  2,450  4,636  5,506
40,700  40,750  0  1,336  3,168  4,038  0  2,442  4,625  5,495
40,750  40,800  0  1,328  3,158  4,028  0  2,434  4,615  5,485
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
40,800  40,850  0  1,320  3,147  4,017  0  2,426  4,604  5,474
40,850  40,900  0  1,312  3,137  4,007  0  2,418  4,594  5,464
40,900  40,950  0  1,304  3,126  3,996  0  2,410  4,583  5,453
40,950  41,000  0  1,296  3,115  3,985  0  2,402  4,573  5,443
41,000  41,050  0  1,288  3,105  3,975  0  2,394  4,562  5,432
41,050  41,100  0  1,280  3,094  3,964  0  2,386  4,552  5,422
41,100  41,150  0  1,272  3,084  3,954  0  2,378  4,541  5,411
41,150  41,200  0  1,264  3,073  3,943  0  2,370  4,531  5,401
41,200  41,250  0  1,256  3,063  3,933  0  2,362  4,520  5,390
41,250  41,300  0  1,248  3,052  3,922  0  2,354  4,510  5,380
41,300  41,350  0  1,240  3,042  3,912  0  2,346  4,499  5,369
41,350  41,400  0  1,232  3,031  3,901  0  2,338  4,489  5,359
41,400  41,450  0  1,224  3,021  3,891  0  2,330  4,478  5,348
41,450  41,500  0  1,216  3,010  3,880  0  2,322  4,468  5,338
41,500  41,550  0  1,208  3,000  3,870  0  2,314  4,457  5,327
41,550  41,600  0  1,200  2,989  3,859  0  2,306  4,446  5,316
41,600  41,650  0  1,192  2,979  3,849  0  2,298  4,436  5,306
41,650  41,700  0  1,184  2,968  3,838  0  2,290  4,425  5,295
41,700  41,750  0  1,176  2,958  3,828  0  2,282  4,415  5,285
41,750  41,800  0  1,168  2,947  3,817  0  2,274  4,404  5,274
41,800  41,850  0  1,160  2,936  3,806  0  2,266  4,394  5,264
41,850  41,900  0  1,152  2,926  3,796  0  2,258  4,383  5,253
41,900  41,950  0  1,144  2,915  3,785  0  2,250  4,373  5,243
41,950  42,000  0  1,136  2,905  3,775  0  2,242  4,362  5,232
42,000  42,050  0  1,128  2,894  3,764  0  2,234  4,352  5,222
42,050  42,100  0  1,120  2,884  3,754  0  2,226  4,341  5,211
42,100  42,150  0  1,112  2,873  3,743  0  2,218  4,331  5,201
42,150  42,200  0  1,104  2,863  3,733  0  2,210  4,320  5,190
42,200  42,250  0  1,096  2,852  3,722  0  2,202  4,310  5,180
42,250  42,300  0  1,088  2,842  3,712  0  2,194  4,299  5,169
42,300  42,350  0  1,080  2,831  3,701  0  2,186  4,289  5,159
42,350  42,400  0  1,072  2,821  3,691  0  2,178  4,278  5,148
42,400  42,450  0  1,064  2,810  3,680  0  2,170  4,267  5,137
42,450  42,500  0  1,056  2,800  3,670  0  2,162  4,257  5,127
42,500  42,550  0  1,048  2,789  3,659  0  2,154  4,246  5,116
42,550  42,600  0  1,040  2,779  3,649  0  2,146  4,236  5,106
42,600  42,650  0  1,032  2,768  3,638  0  2,138  4,225  5,095
42,650  42,700  0  1,024  2,757  3,627  0  2,130  4,215  5,085
42,700  42,750  0  1,016  2,747  3,617  0  2,122  4,204  5,074
42,750  42,800  0  1,008  2,736  3,606  0  2,114  4,194  5,064
42,800  42,850  0  1,000  2,726  3,596  0  2,106  4,183  5,053
42,850  42,900  0  992  2,715  3,585  0  2,098  4,173  5,043
42,900  42,950  0  984  2,705  3,575  0  2,090  4,162  5,032
42,950  43,000  0  976  2,694  3,564  0  2,082  4,152  5,022
43,000  43,050  0  968  2,684  3,554  0  2,074  4,141  5,011
43,050  43,100  0  960  2,673  3,543  0  2,066  4,131  5,001
43,100  43,150  0  952  2,663  3,533  0  2,058  4,120  4,990
43,150  43,200  0  944  2,652  3,522  0  2,050  4,110  4,980
43,200  43,250  0  936  2,642  3,512  0  2,042  4,099  4,969
43,250  43,300  0  928  2,631  3,501  0  2,034  4,088  4,958
43,300  43,350  0  920  2,621  3,491  0  2,026  4,078  4,948
43,350  43,400  0  912  2,610  3,480  0  2,018  4,067  4,937
43,400  43,450  0  904  2,600  3,470  0  2,010  4,057  4,927
43,450  43,500  0  896  2,589  3,459  0  2,002  4,046  4,916
43,500  43,550  0  888  2,578  3,448  0  1,994  4,036  4,906
43,550  43,600  0  880  2,568  3,438  0  1,986  4,025  4,895
43,600  43,650  0  872  2,557  3,427  0  1,978  4,015  4,885
43,650  43,700  0  864  2,547  3,417  0  1,970  4,004  4,874
43,700  43,750  0  856  2,536  3,406  0  1,962  3,994  4,864
43,750  43,800  0  848  2,526  3,396  0  1,954  3,983  4,853
43,800  43,850  0  840  2,515  3,385  0  1,946  3,973  4,843
43,850  43,900  0  832  2,505  3,375  0  1,938  3,962  4,832
43,900  43,950  0  824  2,494  3,364  0  1,930  3,952  4,822
43,950  44,000  0  816  2,484  3,354  0  1,922  3,941  4,811
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
52  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 53 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
44,000  44,050  0  808  2,473  3,343  0  1,914  3,931  4,801
44,050  44,100  0  800  2,463  3,333  0  1,906  3,920  4,790
44,100  44,150  0  792  2,452  3,322  0  1,898  3,909  4,779
44,150  44,200  0  784  2,442  3,312  0  1,890  3,899  4,769
44,200  44,250  0  777  2,431  3,301  0  1,882  3,888  4,758
44,250  44,300  0  769  2,421  3,291  0  1,874  3,878  4,748
44,300  44,350  0  761  2,410  3,280  0  1,866  3,867  4,737
44,350  44,400  0  753  2,399  3,269  0  1,858  3,857  4,727
44,400  44,450  0  745  2,389  3,259  0  1,850  3,846  4,716
44,450  44,500  0  737  2,378  3,248  0  1,842  3,836  4,706
44,500  44,550  0  729  2,368  3,238  0  1,834  3,825  4,695
44,550  44,600  0  721  2,357  3,227  0  1,826  3,815  4,685
44,600  44,650  0  713  2,347  3,217  0  1,818  3,804  4,674
44,650  44,700  0  705  2,336  3,206  0  1,810  3,794  4,664
44,700  44,750  0  697  2,326  3,196  0  1,802  3,783  4,653
44,750  44,800  0  689  2,315  3,185  0  1,794  3,773  4,643
44,800  44,850  0  681  2,305  3,175  0  1,786  3,762  4,632
44,850  44,900  0  673  2,294  3,164  0  1,778  3,752  4,622
44,900  44,950  0  665  2,284  3,154  0  1,770  3,741  4,611
44,950  45,000  0  657  2,273  3,143  0  1,762  3,730  4,600
45,000  45,050  0  649  2,263  3,133  0  1,754  3,720  4,590
45,050  45,100  0  641  2,252  3,122  0  1,746  3,709  4,579
45,100  45,150  0  633  2,242  3,112  0  1,738  3,699  4,569
45,150  45,200  0  625  2,231  3,101  0  1,731  3,688  4,558
45,200  45,250  0  617  2,220  3,090  0  1,723  3,678  4,548
45,250  45,300  0  609  2,210  3,080  0  1,715  3,667  4,537
45,300  45,350  0  601  2,199  3,069  0  1,707  3,657  4,527
45,350  45,400  0  593  2,189  3,059  0  1,699  3,646  4,516
45,400  45,450  0  585  2,178  3,048  0  1,691  3,636  4,506
45,450  45,500  0  577  2,168  3,038  0  1,683  3,625  4,495
45,500  45,550  0  569  2,157  3,027  0  1,675  3,615  4,485
45,550  45,600  0  561  2,147  3,017  0  1,667  3,604  4,474
45,600  45,650  0  553  2,136  3,006  0  1,659  3,594  4,464
45,650  45,700  0  545  2,126  2,996  0  1,651  3,583  4,453
45,700  45,750  0  537  2,115  2,985  0  1,643  3,572  4,442
45,750  45,800  0  529  2,105  2,975  0  1,635  3,562  4,432
45,800  45,850  0  521  2,094  2,964  0  1,627  3,551  4,421
45,850  45,900  0  513  2,084  2,954  0  1,619  3,541  4,411
45,900  45,950  0  505  2,073  2,943  0  1,611  3,530  4,400
45,950  46,000  0  497  2,062  2,932  0  1,603  3,520  4,390
46,000  46,050  0  489  2,052  2,922  0  1,595  3,509  4,379
46,050  46,100  0  481  2,041  2,911  0  1,587  3,499  4,369
46,100  46,150  0  473  2,031  2,901  0  1,579  3,488  4,358
46,150  46,200  0  465  2,020  2,890  0  1,571  3,478  4,348
46,200  46,250  0  457  2,010  2,880  0  1,563  3,467  4,337
46,250  46,300  0  449  1,999  2,869  0  1,555  3,457  4,327
46,300  46,350  0  441  1,989  2,859  0  1,547  3,446  4,316
46,350  46,400  0  433  1,978  2,848  0  1,539  3,436  4,306
46,400  46,450  0  425  1,968  2,838  0  1,531  3,425  4,295
46,450  46,500  0  417  1,957  2,827  0  1,523  3,415  4,285
46,500  46,550  0  409  1,947  2,817  0  1,515  3,404  4,274
46,550  46,600  0  401  1,936  2,806  0  1,507  3,393  4,263
46,600  46,650  0  393  1,926  2,796  0  1,499  3,383  4,253
46,650  46,700  0  385  1,915  2,785  0  1,491  3,372  4,242
46,700  46,750  0  377  1,905  2,775  0  1,483  3,362  4,232
46,750  46,800  0  369  1,894  2,764  0  1,475  3,351  4,221
46,800  46,850  0  361  1,883  2,753  0  1,467  3,341  4,211
46,850  46,900  0  353  1,873  2,743  0  1,459  3,330  4,200
46,900  46,950  0  345  1,862  2,732  0  1,451  3,320  4,190
46,950  47,000  0  337  1,852  2,722  0  1,443  3,309  4,179
47,000  47,050  0  329  1,841  2,711  0  1,435  3,299  4,169
47,050  47,100  0  321  1,831  2,701  0  1,427  3,288  4,158
47,100  47,150  0  313  1,820  2,690  0  1,419  3,278  4,148
47,150  47,200  0  305  1,810  2,680  0  1,411  3,267  4,137
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
47,200  47,250  0  297  1,799  2,669  0  1,403  3,257  4,127
47,250  47,300  0  289  1,789  2,659  0  1,395  3,246  4,116
47,300  47,350  0  281  1,778  2,648  0  1,387  3,236  4,106
47,350  47,400  0  273  1,768  2,638  0  1,379  3,225  4,095
47,400  47,450  0  265  1,757  2,627  0  1,371  3,214  4,084
47,450  47,500  0  257  1,747  2,617  0  1,363  3,204  4,074
47,500  47,550  0  249  1,736  2,606  0  1,355  3,193  4,063
47,550  47,600  0  241  1,726  2,596  0  1,347  3,183  4,053
47,600  47,650  0  233  1,715  2,585  0  1,339  3,172  4,042
47,650  47,700  0  225  1,704  2,574  0  1,331  3,162  4,032
47,700  47,750  0  217  1,694  2,564  0  1,323  3,151  4,021
47,750  47,800  0  209  1,683  2,553  0  1,315  3,141  4,011
47,800  47,850  0  201  1,673  2,543  0  1,307  3,130  4,000
47,850  47,900  0  193  1,662  2,532  0  1,299  3,120  3,990
47,900  47,950  0  185  1,652  2,522  0  1,291  3,109  3,979
47,950  48,000  0  177  1,641  2,511  0  1,283  3,099  3,969
48,000  48,050  0  169  1,631  2,501  0  1,275  3,088  3,958
48,050  48,100  0  161  1,620  2,490  0  1,267  3,078  3,948
48,100  48,150  0  153  1,610  2,480  0  1,259  3,067  3,937
48,150  48,200  0  145  1,599  2,469  0  1,251  3,057  3,927
48,200  48,250  0  137  1,589  2,459  0  1,243  3,046  3,916
48,250  48,300  0  129  1,578  2,448  0  1,235  3,035  3,905
48,300  48,350  0  121  1,568  2,438  0  1,227  3,025  3,895
48,350  48,400  0  113  1,557  2,427  0  1,219  3,014  3,884
48,400  48,450  0  105  1,547  2,417  0  1,211  3,004  3,874
48,450  48,500  0  97  1,536  2,406  0  1,203  2,993  3,863
48,500  48,550  0  89  1,525  2,395  0  1,195  2,983  3,853
48,550  48,600  0  81  1,515  2,385  0  1,187  2,972  3,842
48,600  48,650  0  73  1,504  2,374  0  1,179  2,962  3,832
48,650  48,700  0  65  1,494  2,364  0  1,171  2,951  3,821
48,700  48,750  0  57  1,483  2,353  0  1,163  2,941  3,811
48,750  48,800  0  49  1,473  2,343  0  1,155  2,930  3,800
48,800  48,850  0  41  1,462  2,332  0  1,147  2,920  3,790
48,850  48,900  0  33  1,452  2,322  0  1,139  2,909  3,779
48,900  48,950  0  25  1,441  2,311  0  1,131  2,899  3,769
48,950  49,000  0  17  1,431  2,301  0  1,123  2,888  3,758
49,000  49,050  0  9  1,420  2,290  0  1,115  2,878  3,748
49,050  49,100  0  *  1,410  2,280  0  1,107  2,867  3,737
49,100  49,150  0  0  1,399  2,269  0  1,099  2,856  3,726
49,150  49,200  0  0  1,389  2,259  0  1,091  2,846  3,716
49,200  49,250  0  0  1,378  2,248  0  1,083  2,835  3,705
49,250  49,300  0  0  1,368  2,238  0  1,075  2,825  3,695
49,300  49,350  0  0  1,357  2,227  0  1,067  2,814  3,684
49,350  49,400  0  0  1,346  2,216  0  1,059  2,804  3,674
49,400  49,450  0  0  1,336  2,206  0  1,051  2,793  3,663
49,450  49,500  0  0  1,325  2,195  0  1,043  2,783  3,653
49,500  49,550  0  0  1,315  2,185  0  1,035  2,772  3,642
49,550  49,600  0  0  1,304  2,174  0  1,027  2,762  3,632
49,600  49,650  0  0  1,294  2,164  0  1,019  2,751  3,621
49,650  49,700  0  0  1,283  2,153  0  1,011  2,741  3,611
49,700  49,750  0  0  1,273  2,143  0  1,003  2,730  3,600
49,750  49,800  0  0  1,262  2,132  0  995  2,720  3,590
49,800  49,850  0  0  1,252  2,122  0  987  2,709  3,579
49,850  49,900  0  0  1,241  2,111  0  979  2,699  3,569
49,900  49,950  0  0  1,231  2,101  0  971  2,688  3,558
49,950  50,000  0  0  1,220  2,090  0  963  2,677  3,547
50,000  50,050  0  0  1,210  2,080  0  955  2,667  3,537
50,050  50,100  0  0  1,199  2,069  0  947  2,656  3,526
50,100  50,150  0  0  1,189  2,059  0  939  2,646  3,516
50,150  50,200  0  0  1,178  2,048  0  932  2,635  3,505
50,200  50,250  0  0  1,167  2,037  0  924  2,625  3,495
50,250  50,300  0  0  1,157  2,027  0  916  2,614  3,484
50,300  50,350  0  0  1,146  2,016  0  908  2,604  3,474
50,350  50,400  0  0  1,136  2,006  0  900  2,593  3,463
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $49,050 but less than $49,084, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN,
your credit is $3.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $49,084 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the
credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  53

=== PAGE 54 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
50,400  50,450  0  0  1,125  1,995  0  892  2,583  3,453
50,450  50,500  0  0  1,115  1,985  0  884  2,572  3,442
50,500  50,550  0  0  1,104  1,974  0  876  2,562  3,432
50,550  50,600  0  0  1,094  1,964  0  868  2,551  3,421
50,600  50,650  0  0  1,083  1,953  0  860  2,541  3,411
50,650  50,700  0  0  1,073  1,943  0  852  2,530  3,400
50,700  50,750  0  0  1,062  1,932  0  844  2,519  3,389
50,750  50,800  0  0  1,052  1,922  0  836  2,509  3,379
50,800  50,850  0  0  1,041  1,911  0  828  2,498  3,368
50,850  50,900  0  0  1,031  1,901  0  820  2,488  3,358
50,900  50,950  0  0  1,020  1,890  0  812  2,477  3,347
50,950  51,000  0  0  1,009  1,879  0  804  2,467  3,337
51,000  51,050  0  0  999  1,869  0  796  2,456  3,326
51,050  51,100  0  0  988  1,858  0  788  2,446  3,316
51,100  51,150  0  0  978  1,848  0  780  2,435  3,305
51,150  51,200  0  0  967  1,837  0  772  2,425  3,295
51,200  51,250  0  0  957  1,827  0  764  2,414  3,284
51,250  51,300  0  0  946  1,816  0  756  2,404  3,274
51,300  51,350  0  0  936  1,806  0  748  2,393  3,263
51,350  51,400  0  0  925  1,795  0  740  2,383  3,253
51,400  51,450  0  0  915  1,785  0  732  2,372  3,242
51,450  51,500  0  0  904  1,774  0  724  2,362  3,232
51,500  51,550  0  0  894  1,764  0  716  2,351  3,221
51,550  51,600  0  0  883  1,753  0  708  2,340  3,210
51,600  51,650  0  0  873  1,743  0  700  2,330  3,200
51,650  51,700  0  0  862  1,732  0  692  2,319  3,189
51,700  51,750  0  0  852  1,722  0  684  2,309  3,179
51,750  51,800  0  0  841  1,711  0  676  2,298  3,168
51,800  51,850  0  0  830  1,700  0  668  2,288  3,158
51,850  51,900  0  0  820  1,690  0  660  2,277  3,147
51,900  51,950  0  0  809  1,679  0  652  2,267  3,137
51,950  52,000  0  0  799  1,669  0  644  2,256  3,126
52,000  52,050  0  0  788  1,658  0  636  2,246  3,116
52,050  52,100  0  0  778  1,648  0  628  2,235  3,105
52,100  52,150  0  0  767  1,637  0  620  2,225  3,095
52,150  52,200  0  0  757  1,627  0  612  2,214  3,084
52,200  52,250  0  0  746  1,616  0  604  2,204  3,074
52,250  52,300  0  0  736  1,606  0  596  2,193  3,063
52,300  52,350  0  0  725  1,595  0  588  2,183  3,053
52,350  52,400  0  0  715  1,585  0  580  2,172  3,042
52,400  52,450  0  0  704  1,574  0  572  2,161  3,031
52,450  52,500  0  0  694  1,564  0  564  2,151  3,021
52,500  52,550  0  0  683  1,553  0  556  2,140  3,010
52,550  52,600  0  0  673  1,543  0  548  2,130  3,000
52,600  52,650  0  0  662  1,532  0  540  2,119  2,989
52,650  52,700  0  0  651  1,521  0  532  2,109  2,979
52,700  52,750  0  0  641  1,511  0  524  2,098  2,968
52,750  52,800  0  0  630  1,500  0  516  2,088  2,958
52,800  52,850  0  0  620  1,490  0  508  2,077  2,947
52,850  52,900  0  0  609  1,479  0  500  2,067  2,937
52,900  52,950  0  0  599  1,469  0  492  2,056  2,926
52,950  53,000  0  0  588  1,458  0  484  2,046  2,916
53,000  53,050  0  0  578  1,448  0  476  2,035  2,905
53,050  53,100  0  0  567  1,437  0  468  2,025  2,895
53,100  53,150  0  0  557  1,427  0  460  2,014  2,884
53,150  53,200  0  0  546  1,416  0  452  2,004  2,874
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
53,200  53,250  0  0  536  1,406  0  444  1,993  2,863
53,250  53,300  0  0  525  1,395  0  436  1,982  2,852
53,300  53,350  0  0  515  1,385  0  428  1,972  2,842
53,350  53,400  0  0  504  1,374  0  420  1,961  2,831
53,400  53,450  0  0  494  1,364  0  412  1,951  2,821
53,450  53,500  0  0  483  1,353  0  404  1,940  2,810
53,500  53,550  0  0  472  1,342  0  396  1,930  2,800
53,550  53,600  0  0  462  1,332  0  388  1,919  2,789
53,600  53,650  0  0  451  1,321  0  380  1,909  2,779
53,650  53,700  0  0  441  1,311  0  372  1,898  2,768
53,700  53,750  0  0  430  1,300  0  364  1,888  2,758
53,750  53,800  0  0  420  1,290  0  356  1,877  2,747
53,800  53,850  0  0  409  1,279  0  348  1,867  2,737
53,850  53,900  0  0  399  1,269  0  340  1,856  2,726
53,900  53,950  0  0  388  1,258  0  332  1,846  2,716
53,950  54,000  0  0  378  1,248  0  324  1,835  2,705
54,000  54,050  0  0  367  1,237  0  316  1,825  2,695
54,050  54,100  0  0  357  1,227  0  308  1,814  2,684
54,100  54,150  0  0  346  1,216  0  300  1,803  2,673
54,150  54,200  0  0  336  1,206  0  292  1,793  2,663
54,200  54,250  0  0  325  1,195  0  284  1,782  2,652
54,250  54,300  0  0  315  1,185  0  276  1,772  2,642
54,300  54,350  0  0  304  1,174  0  268  1,761  2,631
54,350  54,400  0  0  293  1,163  0  260  1,751  2,621
54,400  54,450  0  0  283  1,153  0  252  1,740  2,610
54,450  54,500  0  0  272  1,142  0  244  1,730  2,600
54,500  54,550  0  0  262  1,132  0  236  1,719  2,589
54,550  54,600  0  0  251  1,121  0  228  1,709  2,579
54,600  54,650  0  0  241  1,111  0  220  1,698  2,568
54,650  54,700  0  0  230  1,100  0  212  1,688  2,558
54,700  54,750  0  0  220  1,090  0  204  1,677  2,547
54,750  54,800  0  0  209  1,079  0  196  1,667  2,537
54,800  54,850  0  0  199  1,069  0  188  1,656  2,526
54,850  54,900  0  0  188  1,058  0  180  1,646  2,516
54,900  54,950  0  0  178  1,048  0  172  1,635  2,505
54,950  55,000  0  0  167  1,037  0  164  1,624  2,494
55,000  55,050  0  0  157  1,027  0  156  1,614  2,484
55,050  55,100  0  0  146  1,016  0  148  1,603  2,473
55,100  55,150  0  0  136  1,006  0  140  1,593  2,463
55,150  55,200  0  0  125  995  0  133  1,582  2,452
55,200  55,250  0  0  114  984  0  125  1,572  2,442
55,250  55,300  0  0  104  974  0  117  1,561  2,431
55,300  55,350  0  0  93  963  0  109  1,551  2,421
55,350  55,400  0  0  83  953  0  101  1,540  2,410
55,400  55,450  0  0  72  942  0  93  1,530  2,400
55,450  55,500  0  0  62  932  0  85  1,519  2,389
55,500  55,550  0  0  51  921  0  77  1,509  2,379
55,550  55,600  0  0  41  911  0  69  1,498  2,368
55,600  55,650  0  0  30  900  0  61  1,488  2,358
55,650  55,700  0  0  20  890  0  53  1,477  2,347
55,700  55,750  0  0  9  879  0  45  1,466  2,336
55,750  55,800  0  0  *  869  0  37  1,456  2,326
55,800  55,850  0  0  0  858  0  29  1,445  2,315
55,850  55,900  0  0  0  848  0  21  1,435  2,305
55,900  55,950  0  0  0  837  0  13  1,424  2,294
55,950  56,000  0  0  0  826  0  5  1,414  2,284
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $55,750 but less than $55,768, and you have two qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $55,768 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
54  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 55 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
56,000  56,050  0  0  0  816  0  *  1,403  2,273
56,050  56,100  0  0  0  805  0  0  1,393  2,263
56,100  56,150  0  0  0  795  0  0  1,382  2,252
56,150  56,200  0  0  0  784  0  0  1,372  2,242
56,200  56,250  0  0  0  774  0  0  1,361  2,231
56,250  56,300  0  0  0  763  0  0  1,351  2,221
56,300  56,350  0  0  0  753  0  0  1,340  2,210
56,350  56,400  0  0  0  742  0  0  1,330  2,200
56,400  56,450  0  0  0  732  0  0  1,319  2,189
56,450  56,500  0  0  0  721  0  0  1,309  2,179
56,500  56,550  0  0  0  711  0  0  1,298  2,168
56,550  56,600  0  0  0  700  0  0  1,287  2,157
56,600  56,650  0  0  0  690  0  0  1,277  2,147
56,650  56,700  0  0  0  679  0  0  1,266  2,136
56,700  56,750  0  0  0  669  0  0  1,256  2,126
56,750  56,800  0  0  0  658  0  0  1,245  2,115
56,800  56,850  0  0  0  647  0  0  1,235  2,105
56,850  56,900  0  0  0  637  0  0  1,224  2,094
56,900  56,950  0  0  0  626  0  0  1,214  2,084
56,950  57,000  0  0  0  616  0  0  1,203  2,073
57,000  57,050  0  0  0  605  0  0  1,193  2,063
57,050  57,100  0  0  0  595  0  0  1,182  2,052
57,100  57,150  0  0  0  584  0  0  1,172  2,042
57,150  57,200  0  0  0  574  0  0  1,161  2,031
57,200  57,250  0  0  0  563  0  0  1,151  2,021
57,250  57,300  0  0  0  553  0  0  1,140  2,010
57,300  57,350  0  0  0  542  0  0  1,130  2,000
57,350  57,400  0  0  0  532  0  0  1,119  1,989
57,400  57,450  0  0  0  521  0  0  1,108  1,978
57,450  57,500  0  0  0  511  0  0  1,098  1,968
57,500  57,550  0  0  0  500  0  0  1,087  1,957
57,550  57,600  0  0  0  490  0  0  1,077  1,947
57,600  57,650  0  0  0  479  0  0  1,066  1,936
57,650  57,700  0  0  0  468  0  0  1,056  1,926
57,700  57,750  0  0  0  458  0  0  1,045  1,915
57,750  57,800  0  0  0  447  0  0  1,035  1,905
57,800  57,850  0  0  0  437  0  0  1,024  1,894
57,850  57,900  0  0  0  426  0  0  1,014  1,884
57,900  57,950  0  0  0  416  0  0  1,003  1,873
57,950  58,000  0  0  0  405  0  0  993  1,863
58,000  58,050  0  0  0  395  0  0  982  1,852
58,050  58,100  0  0  0  384  0  0  972  1,842
58,100  58,150  0  0  0  374  0  0  961  1,831
58,150  58,200  0  0  0  363  0  0  951  1,821
58,200  58,250  0  0  0  353  0  0  940  1,810
58,250  58,300  0  0  0  342  0  0  929  1,799
58,300  58,350  0  0  0  332  0  0  919  1,789
58,350  58,400  0  0  0  321  0  0  908  1,778
58,400  58,450  0  0  0  311  0  0  898  1,768
58,450  58,500  0  0  0  300  0  0  887  1,757
58,500  58,550  0  0  0  289  0  0  877  1,747
58,550  58,600  0  0  0  279  0  0  866  1,736
58,600  58,650  0  0  0  268  0  0  856  1,726
58,650  58,700  0  0  0  258  0  0  845  1,715
58,700  58,750  0  0  0  247  0  0  835  1,705
58,750  58,800  0  0  0  237  0  0  824  1,694
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
58,800  58,850  0  0  0  226  0  0  814  1,684
58,850  58,900  0  0  0  216  0  0  803  1,673
58,900  58,950  0  0  0  205  0  0  793  1,663
58,950  59,000  0  0  0  195  0  0  782  1,652
59,000  59,050  0  0  0  184  0  0  772  1,642
59,050  59,100  0  0  0  174  0  0  761  1,631
59,100  59,150  0  0  0  163  0  0  750  1,620
59,150  59,200  0  0  0  153  0  0  740  1,610
59,200  59,250  0  0  0  142  0  0  729  1,599
59,250  59,300  0  0  0  132  0  0  719  1,589
59,300  59,350  0  0  0  121  0  0  708  1,578
59,350  59,400  0  0  0  110  0  0  698  1,568
59,400  59,450  0  0  0  100  0  0  687  1,557
59,450  59,500  0  0  0  89  0  0  677  1,547
59,500  59,550  0  0  0  79  0  0  666  1,536
59,550  59,600  0  0  0  68  0  0  656  1,526
59,600  59,650  0  0  0  58  0  0  645  1,515
59,650  59,700  0  0  0  47  0  0  635  1,505
59,700  59,750  0  0  0  37  0  0  624  1,494
59,750  59,800  0  0  0  26  0  0  614  1,484
59,800  59,850  0  0  0  16  0  0  603  1,473
59,850  59,900  0  0  0  **  0  0  593  1,463
59,900  59,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  582  1,452
59,950  60,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  571  1,441
60,000  60,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  561  1,431
60,050  60,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  550  1,420
60,100  60,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  540  1,410
60,150  60,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  529  1,399
60,200  60,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  519  1,389
60,250  60,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  508  1,378
60,300  60,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  498  1,368
60,350  60,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  487  1,357
60,400  60,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  477  1,347
60,450  60,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  466  1,336
60,500  60,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  456  1,326
60,550  60,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  445  1,315
60,600  60,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  435  1,305
60,650  60,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  424  1,294
60,700  60,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  413  1,283
60,750  60,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  403  1,273
60,800  60,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  392  1,262
60,850  60,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  382  1,252
60,900  60,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  371  1,241
60,950  61,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  361  1,231
61,000  61,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  350  1,220
61,050  61,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  340  1,210
61,100  61,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  329  1,199
61,150  61,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  319  1,189
61,200  61,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  308  1,178
61,250  61,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  298  1,168
61,300  61,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  287  1,157
61,350  61,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  277  1,147
61,400  61,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  266  1,136
61,450  61,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  256  1,126
61,500  61,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  245  1,115
61,550  61,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  234  1,104
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $56,000 but less than $56,004, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN,
your credit is $0.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $56,004 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the
credit.
**  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $59,850 but less than $59,899, and you have three qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $5.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $59,899 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
(Continued)
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  55

=== PAGE 56 ===
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
61,600  61,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  224  1,094
61,650  61,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  213  1,083
61,700  61,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  203  1,073
61,750  61,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  192  1,062
61,800  61,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  182  1,052
61,850  61,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  171  1,041
61,900  61,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  161  1,031
61,950  62,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  150  1,020
62,000  62,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  140  1,010
62,050  62,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  129  999
62,100  62,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  119  989
62,150  62,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  108  978
62,200  62,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  98  968
62,250  62,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  87  957
62,300  62,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  77  947
62,350  62,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  66  936
62,400  62,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  55  925
62,450  62,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  45  915
62,500  62,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  34  904
62,550  62,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  24  894
62,600  62,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  13  883
62,650  62,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  *  873
62,700  62,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  862
62,750  62,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  852
62,800  62,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  841
62,850  62,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  831
62,900  62,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  820
62,950  63,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  810
63,000  63,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  799
63,050  63,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  789
63,100  63,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  778
63,150  63,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  768
63,200  63,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  757
63,250  63,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  746
63,300  63,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  736
63,350  63,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  725
63,400  63,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  715
63,450  63,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  704
63,500  63,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  694
63,550  63,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  683
63,600  63,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  673
63,650  63,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  662
63,700  63,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  652
63,750  63,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  641
63,800  63,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  631
63,850  63,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  620
63,900  63,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  610
63,950  64,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  599
64,000  64,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  589
64,050  64,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  578
64,100  64,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  567
64,150  64,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  557
64,200  64,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  546
64,250  64,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  536
64,300  64,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  525
64,350  64,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  515
And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–
Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
Married filing jointly and you
have–
0  1  2  3  0  1  2  3
At least  But less
than
Your credit is–  Your credit is–
64,400  64,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  504
64,450  64,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  494
64,500  64,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  483
64,550  64,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  473
64,600  64,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  462
64,650  64,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  452
64,700  64,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  441
64,750  64,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  431
64,800  64,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  420
64,850  64,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  410
64,900  64,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  399
64,950  65,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  388
65,000  65,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  378
65,050  65,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  367
65,100  65,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  357
65,150  65,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  346
65,200  65,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  336
65,250  65,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  325
65,300  65,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  315
65,350  65,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  304
65,400  65,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  294
65,450  65,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  283
65,500  65,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  273
65,550  65,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  262
65,600  65,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  252
65,650  65,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  241
65,700  65,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  230
65,750  65,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  220
65,800  65,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  209
65,850  65,900  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  199
65,900  65,950  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  188
65,950  66,000  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  178
66,000  66,050  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  167
66,050  66,100  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  157
66,100  66,150  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  146
66,150  66,200  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  136
66,200  66,250  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  125
66,250  66,300  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  115
66,300  66,350  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  104
66,350  66,400  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  94
66,400  66,450  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  83
66,450  66,500  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  73
66,500  66,550  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  62
66,550  66,600  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  51
66,600  66,650  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  41
66,650  66,700  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  30
66,700  66,750  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  20
66,750  66,800  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  9
66,800  66,850  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  **
★  Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
*  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $62,650 but less than $62,688, and you have two qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $4.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $62,688 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.
**  If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $66,800 but less than $66,819, and you have three qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $66,819 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.
Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table  -  Continued  ( Caution.  This is  not  a tax table.)
56  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 57 ===
Line 28
Additional Child Tax Credit
See Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its
instructions for information on figuring
and claiming any additional child tax
credit that you may qualify to claim. If
you are claiming the additional child tax
credit, complete Schedule 8812 and at-
tach it to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Form 8862, who must file.  You must
file Form 8862 to claim the additional
child tax credit if your child tax credit
(refundable or nonrefundable depending
on the tax year), additional child tax
credit, or credit for other dependents for
a year after 2015 was denied or reduced
for any reason other than a math or cleri-
cal error. Attach a completed Form 8862
to your 2024 return to claim the credit
for 2024. Don't file Form 8862 if you
filed Form 8862 for 2023 and the child
tax credit, additional child tax credit, or
credit for other dependents was allowed
for that year. See Form 8862 and its in-
structions for details.
If you claim the additional child
tax  credit  even  though  you
aren't eligible and it is deter-
mined that your error is due to reckless
or intentional disregard of the additional
child tax credit rules, you won't be al-
lowed to take the child tax credit, the
credit for other dependents, or the addi-
tional child tax credit for 2 years even if
you’re otherwise eligible to do so. If you
claim  the  additional  child  tax  credit
even though you aren’t eligible and it is
later determined that you fraudulently
claimed the credit, you won't be allowed
to take the child tax credit, the credit for
other dependents, or the additional child
tax credit for 10 years. You may also
have to pay penalties.
Refunds  for  returns  claiming
the additional child tax credit
can't be issued before mid-Feb-
ruary 2025. This delay applies to the en-
tire refund, not just the portion associ-
ated with the additional child tax credit.
CAUTION
!
TIP
Line 29
American Opportunity
Credit
If you meet the requirements to claim an
education credit (see the instructions for
Schedule 3, line 3), enter on line 29 the
amount, if any, from Form 8863, line 8.
You may be able to increase an educa-
tion credit and reduce your total tax or
increase your tax refund if the student
chooses to include all or part of a Pell
grant or certain other scholarships or fel-
lowships in income. See Pub. 970 and
the Instructions for Form 8863 for more
information.
Form  8862  required.  You  must  file
Form 8862 to claim the American op-
portunity credit if your American oppor-
tunity credit for a year after 2015 was
denied or reduced for any reason other
than a math or clerical error. Attach a
completed Form 8862 to your 2024 re-
turn to claim the credit for 2024. Don't
file Form 8862 if you filed Form 8862
for 2023 and the American opportunity
credit was allowed for that year. See
Form 8862 and its instructions for de-
tails.
If you claim the American op-
portunity  credit  even  though
you aren't eligible and it is de-
termined that your error is due to reck-
less  or  intentional  disregard  of  the
American opportunity credit rules, you
won't be allowed to take the credit for 2
years even if you’re otherwise eligible to
do so. If you claim the American oppor-
tunity credit even though you aren't eli-
gible and it is determined that you frau-
dulently claimed the credit, you won't be
allowed to take the credit for 10 years.
You may also have to pay penalties.
Line 30
Line 30 has been reserved for future use.
Refund
Line 34
Amount Overpaid
If line 34 is under $1, we will send a re-
fund only on written request.
CAUTION
!
Refund Offset
If you owe past-due federal tax, state in-
come tax, state unemployment compen-
sation debts, child support, spousal sup-
port,  or  certain  federal  nontax  debts,
such as student loans, all or part of the
overpayment on line 34 may be used
(offset) to pay the past-due amount. Off-
sets for federal taxes are made by the
IRS. All other offsets are made by the
Treasury  Department's  Bureau  of  the
Fiscal Service. For federal tax offsets,
you will receive a notice from the IRS.
For all other offsets, you will receive a
notice from the Fiscal Service. To find
out if you may have an offset or if you
have any questions about it, contact the
agency to which you owe the debt.
Deposit Refund Into Multiple
Accounts
If you want your refund to be split and
direct deposited into more than one ac-
count, file Form 8888. Use Form 8888
to direct deposit your refund (or part of
it) to one or more accounts in your name
at a bank or other financial institution
(such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm,
or credit union) in the United States.
Injured Spouse
If you file a joint return and your spouse
hasn’t paid past-due federal tax, state in-
come tax, state unemployment compen-
sation debts, child support, spousal sup-
port, or a federal nontax debt, such as a
student loan, part or all of the overpay-
ment on line 34 may be used (offset) to
pay the past-due amount. But your part
of the overpayment may be refunded to
you if certain conditions apply and you
complete Form 8379. For details, see
Form 8379.
Lines 35a Through 35d
Amount Refunded to You
If you want to check the status of your
refund, just use the IRS2Go app or go to
IRS.gov/Refunds . See  Refund Informa-
tion,  later. Information about your re-
fund will generally be available within
24 hours after the IRS receives your
e-filed  return, or 4 weeks after you mail
your paper return. If you filed Form
8379 with your return, wait 14 weeks
(11 weeks if you filed electronically).
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  57

=== PAGE 58 ===
Have your 2024 tax return handy so you
can enter your social security number,
your filing status, and the exact whole
dollar amount of your refund.
Where's My Refund  will provide a
personalized refund date as soon as the
IRS processes your tax return and appro-
ves your refund.
Claiming a refund for a deceased tax-
payer.  If you are filing a joint return
with your deceased spouse, you only
need to file the tax return to claim the
refund. If you are a court-appointed rep-
resentative, file the return and include a
copy of the certificate that shows your
appointment. All other filers requesting
the deceased taxpayer's refund must file
the return and attach Form 1310.
Effect of refund on benefits.  Any re-
fund you receive can't be counted as in-
come when determining if you or any-
one  else  is  eligible  for  benefits  or
assistance, or how much you or anyone
else can receive, under any federal pro-
gram or under any state or local program
financed in whole or in part with federal
funds. These programs include Tempo-
rary  Assistance  for  Needy  Families
(TANF), Medicaid, Supplemental Secur-
ity Income (SSI), and Supplemental Nu-
trition  Assistance  Program  (formerly
food stamps). In addition, when deter-
mining eligibility, the refund can't be
counted as a resource for at least 12
months after you receive it. Check with
your local benefit coordinator to find out
if your refund will affect your benefits.
Simple. Safe. Secure.
DIRECT  DEPOSIT
Fast Refunds!  Join the eight in 10 taxpayers
who choose direct deposit—a fast, simple, safe,
secure way to have your refund deposited
automatically to your checking or savings
account, including an individual retirement
arrangement (IRA). See the information about
IRAs, later.
If you want us to directly deposit the
amount  shown  on  line  35a  to  your
checking, savings, health savings, bro-
kerage or other similar account, includ-
ing an IRA, at a bank or other financial
institution (such as a mutual fund, bro-
kerage firm, or credit union) in the Uni-
ted States:
•  Complete lines 35b through 35d (if
you want your refund deposited to only
one account), or
•  Check the box on line 35a and at-
tach Form 8888 if you want to split the
direct deposit of your refund into more
than one account.
If you don’t want your refund directly
deposited to your account, don’t check
the box on line 35a. Draw a line through
the boxes on lines 35b and 35d. We will
send you a check instead.
Account must be in your name.  Don’t
request a deposit of your refund to an
account that isn't in your name, such as
your tax return preparer’s account. Al-
though you may owe your tax return
preparer a fee for preparing your return,
don’t have any part of your refund de-
posited into the preparer's account to pay
the fee.
The number of refunds that can be di-
rectly deposited to a single account or
prepaid debit card is limited to three a
year. After this limit is reached, paper
checks will be sent instead. Learn more
at  IRS.gov/DepositLimit .
Why Use Direct Deposit?
•  You get your refund faster by di-
rect deposit than you do by check.
•  Payment is more secure. There is
no check that can get lost or stolen.
•  It is more convenient. You don’t
have to make a trip to the bank to depos-
it your check.
•  It saves tax dollars. It costs the
government less to refund by direct de-
posit.
•  It's proven itself. Nearly 98% of
social security and veterans' benefits are
sent electronically using direct deposit.
If you file a joint return and
check the box on line 35a and
attach Form 8888 or fill in lines
35b through 35d, your spouse may get at
least part of the refund.
IRA.  You can have your refund (or part
of it) directly deposited to a traditional
IRA or Roth IRA, but not a SIMPLE
IRA. You must establish the IRA at a
bank or other financial institution before
you request direct deposit. Make sure
your direct deposit will be accepted. You
must also notify the trustee or custodian
of your account of the year to which the
deposit is to be applied (unless the trust-
ee or custodian won't accept a deposit
for 2024). If you don’t, the trustee or
custodian can assume the deposit is for
the year during which you are filing the
CAUTION
!
return. For example, if you file your
2024 return during 2025 and don’t noti-
fy the trustee or custodian in advance,
the trustee or custodian can assume the
deposit to your IRA is for 2025. If you
designate your deposit to be for 2024,
you must verify that the deposit was ac-
tually made to the account by the due
date of the return (not counting exten-
sions). If the deposit isn't made by that
date, the deposit isn't an IRA contribu-
tion for 2024. In that case, you must file
an amended 2024 return and reduce any
IRA deduction and any retirement sav-
ings contributions credit you claimed.
You and your spouse, if filing
jointly,  each  may  be  able  to
contribute up to $7,000 ($8,000
if age 50 or older at the end of 2024) to
a traditional IRA or Roth IRA for 2024.
You may owe an additional tax if your
contributions exceed these limits, and
the limits may be lower depending on
your  compensation  and  income.  For
more information on IRA contributions,
see Pub. 590-A.
For more information on IRAs, see
Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
Form 8888.  You can have your refund
directly deposited into more than one ac-
count.  For  more  information,  see  the
Form 8888 instructions.
Your refund can be split and di-
rectly deposited into up to three
different accounts in your name
on Form 8888.
Line 35b
The routing number must be nine digits.
The first two digits must be 01 through
12 or 21 through 32. On the sample
check shown later, the routing number is
250250025. C. and M. Keys would use
that routing number unless their finan-
cial institution instructed them to use a
different routing number for direct de-
posits.
Ask your financial institution for the
correct  routing  number  to  enter  on
line 35b if:
•  The routing number on a deposit
slip is different from the routing number
on your checks,
•  Your deposit is to a savings ac-
count that doesn't allow you to write
checks, or
CAUTION
!
TIP
58  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 59 ===
•  Your checks state they are payable
through a financial institution different
from the one at which you have your
checking account.
Line 35c
Check the appropriate box for the type
of account. Don’t check more than one
box. If the deposit is to an account such
as an IRA, health savings account, bro-
kerage account, or other similar account,
ask  your  financial  institution  whether
you  should  check  the  “Checking”  or
“Savings” box. You must check the cor-
rect box to ensure your deposit is accep-
ted.
Line 35d
The account number can be up to 17
characters (both numbers and letters).
Include hyphens but omit spaces and
special symbols. Enter the number from
left to right and leave any unused boxes
blank. On the sample check shown later,
the account number is 20202086. Don’t
include the check number.
If  the  direct  deposit  to  your  ac-
count(s) is different from the amount
you expected, you will receive an ex-
planation in the mail about 2 weeks after
your refund is deposited.
Reasons Your Direct Deposit
Request Will Be Rejected
If any of the following apply, your direct
deposit request will be rejected and a
check will be sent instead.
•  You are asking to have a joint re-
fund deposited to an individual account,
and your financial institution(s) won't al-
low this. The IRS isn't responsible if a
financial institution rejects a direct de-
posit.
•  The name on your account doesn't
match the name on the refund, and your
financial institution(s) won't allow a re-
fund to be deposited unless the name on
the refund matches the name on the ac-
count.
•  Three  direct  deposits  of  tax  re-
funds already have been made to the
same account or prepaid debit card.
•  You haven't given a valid account
number.
•  Any numbers or letters on lines
35b through 35d are crossed out or whi-
ted out.
The IRS isn't responsible for a
lost  refund  if  you  enter  the
wrong  account  information.
Check with your financial institution to
get  the  correct  routing  and  account
numbers and to make sure your direct
deposit will be accepted.
Line 36
Applied to Your 2025
Estimated Tax
Enter on line 36 the amount, if any, of
the overpayment on line 34 you want
applied to your 2025 estimated tax. We
will apply this amount to your account
unless you include a statement request-
ing us to apply it to your spouse's ac-
count. Include your spouse's social se-
curity number in the statement.
This election to apply part or
all of the amount overpaid to
your 2025 estimated tax can't
be changed later.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Amount You Owe
To avoid interest and penalties,
pay your taxes in full by the due
date of your return (not includ-
ing  extensions)—April  15,  2025,  for
most taxpayers. You don’t have to pay if
line 37 is under $1.
Include  any  estimated  tax  penalty
from line 38 in the amount you enter on
line  37.  Don’t  include  any  estimated
payments for 2025 in this payment. In-
stead, make the estimated payment sepa-
rately.
Bad check or payment.  The penalty
for writing a bad check to the IRS is $25
or 2% of the check, whichever is more.
However, if the amount of the check is
less than $25, the penalty equals the
amount of the check. This also applies to
other  forms  of  payment  if  the  IRS
doesn’t receive the funds. Use  Tax Topic
206 .
Line 37
Amount You Owe
The IRS offers several payment options.
You can pay online, by phone, mobile
device, cash, check, or money order. Go
to  IRS.gov/Payments  for payment op-
tions.
Pay Online
Paying online is convenient and secure
and helps make sure we get your pay-
ments on time. To pay your taxes online
or for more information, go to  IRS.gov/
TIP
Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d
Do not  include
the check number.
1234
SAMPLE
C. KEYS
M. KEYS
123 Pear Lane
Anyplace, MI 00000
15-0000/0000
PAY TO THE
ORDER OF  $
DOLLARS
ANYPLACE BANK
Anyplace, MI 00000
For
| :250250025  | :202020"’86" .  1234
The routing and account numbers may be in different places on your check.
(line 35b)  (line 35d)
Routing
number
Account
number
CAUTION
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  59

=== PAGE 60 ===
Payments . You can pay using any of the
following methods.
•  Your Online Account.  You can
make tax payments through your online
account,  including  balance  payments,
estimated tax payments, or other types.
You can also see your payment history
and  other  tax  records  there.  Go  to
IRS.gov/Account .
•  IRS Direct Pay.  For online trans-
fers directly from your checking or sav-
ings account at no cost to you, go to
IRS.gov/Payments .
•  Pay by Card or Digital Wallet.
To pay by debit or credit card, or digital
wallet, go to  IRS.gov/Payments . A fee is
charged by these service providers. You
can also pay by phone with a debit or
credit card. See  Debit or credit card  un-
der  Pay by Phone , later.
•  Electronic  Funds  Withdrawal
(EFW) is an integrated  e-file /e-pay op-
tion  offered  when  filing  your  federal
taxes  electronically  using  tax  return
preparation software, through a tax pro-
fessional,  or  the  IRS  at  IRS.gov/
Payments .
•  Online  Payment  Agreement.  If
you can’t pay in full by the due date of
your tax return, you can apply for an on-
line monthly installment agreement at
IRS.gov/OPA .  Once  you  complete  the
online process, you will receive immedi-
ate notification of whether your agree-
ment has been approved. A user fee is
charged.
•  Electronic Federal Tax Payment
System (EFTPS).  Allows you to pay
your taxes online or by phone directly
from your checking or savings account.
There is no fee for this service. You
must be enrolled either online or have an
enrollment  form  mailed  to  you.  See
EFTPS  under  Pay by Phone , later.
Pay by Phone
Paying by phone is another safe and se-
cure  method  of  paying  electronically.
Use one of the following methods:  (1)
call one of the debit or credit card serv-
ice providers, or  (2)  use the Electronic
Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
to pay directly from your checking or
savings account.
Debit or credit card.  Call one of our
service providers. Each charges a fee
that varies by provider, card type, and
payment amount.
ACI Payments, Inc.
888-UPAY-TAX
TM
(888-872-9829)
fed.acipayonline.com
Link2Gov Corporation
888-PAY-1040
TM
(888-729-1040)
www.PAY1040.com
EFTPS.  To get more information about
EFTPS  or  to  enroll  in  EFTPS,  visit
EFTPS.gov  or  call  800-555-4477.  To
contact EFTPS using Telecommunica-
tions Relay Services (TRS) for people
who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability, dial 711 and then pro-
vide the TRS assistant the 800-555-4477
number or 800-733-4829. Additional in-
formation about EFTPS is also available
in Pub. 966.
Pay by Mobile Device
To  pay  through  your  mobile  device,
download the IRS2Go app.
Pay by Cash
You can pay your taxes in cash. To find
out  about  the  different  cash  payment
methods, go to  IRS.gov/PayCash . Don’t
send cash payments through the mail.
Pay by Check or Money Order
Before  submitting  a  payment  through
the  mail,  please  consider  alternative
methods. One of our safe, quick, and
easy electronic payment options might
be right for you. If you choose to mail a
tax payment, make your check or money
order payable to “United States Treas-
ury” for the full amount due. Don’t send
cash. Don’t attach the payment to your
return.  Write  “2024  Form  1040”  or
“2024 Form 1040-SR” and your name,
address, daytime phone number, and so-
cial security number (SSN) on your pay-
ment and attach Form 1040-V. For the
most  up-to-date  information  on  Form
1040-V, go to  IRS.gov/Form1040V . If
you are filing a joint return, enter the
SSN shown first on your tax return.
To help us process your payment, en-
ter the amount on the right side of the
check like this: $ XXX.XX. Don’t use
dashes or lines (for example, don’t enter
“$ XXX–” or “$ XXX xx / 100 ”).
Mail your 2024 tax return, payment,
and Form 1040-V to the address shown
on the form that applies to you. If you
e-filed your return, but choose to make a
payment through the mail, mail your
2024 payment and Form 1040-V to the
address shown on the form that applies
to you.
Notice  to  taxpayers  presenting
checks.  When you provide a check as
payment, you authorize us either to use
information from your check to make a
one-time electronic fund transfer from
your account or to process the payment
as a check transaction. When we use in-
formation from your check to make an
electronic fund transfer, funds may be
withdrawn from your account as soon as
the same day we receive your payment,
and you won’t receive your check back
from your financial institution.
No checks of $100 million or more
accepted.  The IRS can’t accept a single
check (including a cashier’s check) for
amounts of $100,000,000 ($100 million)
or more. If you are sending $100 million
or more by check, you’ll need to spread
the payment over 2 or more checks with
each check made out for an amount less
than $100 million. This limit doesn’t ap-
ply to other methods of payment (such
as electronic payments). Please consider
a method of payment other than check if
the amount of the payment is over $100
million.
What if You Can't Pay?
If you can't pay the full amount shown
on line 37 when you file, you can ask
for:
•  An installment agreement, or
•  An extension of time to pay.
Installment agreement.  Under an in-
stallment agreement, you can pay all or
part of the tax you owe in monthly in-
stallments. However, even if an install-
ment agreement is granted, you will be
charged interest and may be charged a
late payment penalty on the tax not paid
by  the  due  date  of  your  return  (not
counting extensions)—April 15, 2025,
for most people. You must also pay a
fee. To limit the interest and penalty
charges, pay as much of the tax as possi-
ble when you file. But before requesting
an  installment  agreement,  you  should
consider other less costly alternatives,
such as a bank loan or credit card pay-
ment.
60  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 61 ===
To ask for an installment agreement,
you can apply online or use Form 9465.
To apply online, go to  IRS.gov/OPA .
Extension of time to pay.  If paying the
tax when it is due would cause you an
undue hardship, you can ask for an ex-
tension of time to pay by filing Form
1127 by the due date of your return (not
counting extensions)—April 15, 2025,
for most people. An extension generally
won't  be  granted  for  more  than  6
months. You will be charged interest on
the tax not paid by April 15, 2025. You
must pay the tax before the extension
runs out. If you do not pay the tax by the
extended due date, penalties and interest
will be imposed until taxes are paid in
full. For the most up-to-date information
on Form 1127, go to  IRS.gov/Form1127 .
Line 38
Estimated Tax Penalty
You may owe this penalty if:
•  Line 37 is at least $1,000 and it is
more than 10% of the tax shown on your
return, or
•  You didn't pay enough estimated
tax by any of the due dates. This is true
even if you are due a refund.
For most people, the “tax shown on
your return” is the amount on your 2024
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24, minus
the total of any amounts shown on lines
27, 28, and 29; Schedule 3, lines 9 and
12; and Forms 8828, 4137, 5329 (Parts
III through IX only), and 8919. Also
subtract from line 24 any:
•  Tax on an excess parachute pay-
ment,
•  Excise tax on insider stock com-
pensation of an expatriated corporation,
•  Uncollected  social  security  and
Medicare  or  RRTA  tax  on  tips  or
group-term life insurance,
•  Look-back interest due under sec-
tion 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24,
include  household  employment  taxes
only if line 25d is more than zero or you
would owe the penalty even if you didn't
include those taxes.
Exception.  You won't owe the penalty
if your 2023 tax return was for a tax
year of 12 full months and either of the
following applies.
1.  You had no tax shown on your
2023 return and you were a U.S. citizen
or resident for all of 2023.
2.  The total of lines 25d, 26, and
Schedule 3, line 11, on your 2024 return
is at least 100% of the tax shown on
your 2023 return (110% of that amount
if you aren't in the business of farming
or fishing, and your adjusted gross in-
come (AGI) shown on your 2023 return
was  more  than  $150,000  (more  than
$75,000 if married filing separately for
2024)). Your estimated tax payments for
2024 must have been made on time and
for the required amount.
For most people, the “tax shown on
your 2023 return” is the amount on your
2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24,
minus the total of any amounts shown
on lines 27, 28, and 29; Schedule 3,
lines 9 and 12; Schedule H, lines 8e and
8f; and Forms 8828, 4137, 5329 (Parts
III through IX only), and 8919. Also
subtract from line 24 any:
•  Tax on an excess parachute pay-
ment,
•  Excise tax on insider stock com-
pensation of an expatriated corporation,
•  Uncollected  social  security  and
Medicare  or  RRTA  tax  on  tips  or
group-term life insurance, and
•  Look-back interest due under sec-
tion 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24,
include  household  employment  taxes
only if line 25d is more than zero or you
would have owed the estimated tax pen-
alty for 2023 even if you didn't include
those taxes.
If  the  Exception  just  described
doesn't apply, see the Instructions for
Form 2210 for other situations in which
you may be able to lower your penalty
by filing Form 2210.
Figuring the Penalty
If you choose to figure the penalty your-
self, use Form 2210 (or 2210-F for farm-
ers and fishers).
Enter any penalty on line 38. Add the
penalty to any tax due and enter the total
on line 37.
However, if you have an overpay-
ment on line 34, subtract the penalty
from the amount you would otherwise
enter on line 35a or line 36. Lines 35a,
36, and 38 must equal line 34.
If the penalty is more than the over-
payment on line 34, enter -0- on lines
35a and 36. Then, subtract line 34 from
line 38 and enter the result on line 37.
Don’t file Form 2210 with your re-
turn unless Form 2210 indicates that you
must do so. Instead, keep it for your re-
cords.
Because Form 2210 is compli-
cated, you can leave line 38
blank and the IRS will figure
the penalty and send you a bill. We won't
charge you interest on the penalty if you
pay by the date specified on the bill.
There are situations where the IRS can't
figure your penalty for you and you must
file Form 2210. See Form 2210 for de-
tails.
Third Party Designee
If you want to allow your preparer, a
friend, a family member, or any other
person you choose to discuss your 2024
tax return with the IRS, check the “Yes”
box in the “Third Party Designee” area
of your return. Also enter the designee's
name, phone number, and any five digits
the designee chooses as their personal
identification number (PIN).
If you check the “Yes” box, you, and
your spouse if filing a joint return, are
authorizing the IRS to call the designee
to answer any questions that may arise
during the processing of your return.
You are also authorizing the designee to:
•  Give the IRS any information that
is missing from your return;
•  Call the IRS for information about
the processing of your return or the sta-
tus of your refund or payment(s);
•  Receive copies of notices or tran-
scripts related to your return, upon re-
quest; and
•  Respond  to  certain  IRS  notices
about math errors, offsets, and return
preparation.
You aren't authorizing the designee to
receive any refund check, bind you to
anything (including any additional tax
liability), or otherwise represent you be-
fore the IRS. If you want to expand the
designee's authorization, see Pub. 947.
This authorization will automatically
end  no  later  than  the  due  date  (not
counting  extensions)  for  filing  your
2025 tax return. This is April 15, 2026,
for most people.
TIP
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  61

=== PAGE 62 ===
Sign Your Return
Form 1040 or 1040-SR isn't considered
a valid return unless you sign it in ac-
cordance with the requirements in these
instructions. If you are filing a joint re-
turn, your spouse must also sign. If your
spouse can't sign the return, see Pub.
501. Be sure to date your return and en-
ter  your  occupation(s).  If  you  have
someone prepare your return, you are
still responsible for the correctness of
the return. If your return is signed by a
representative for you, you must have a
power of attorney attached that specifi-
cally  authorizes  the  representative  to
sign your return. To do this, you can use
Form 2848. If you are filing a joint re-
turn with your spouse who died in 2024,
see  Death of a Taxpayer , earlier.
Court-Appointed
Conservator, Guardian, or
Other Fiduciary
If you are a court-appointed conservator,
guardian, or other fiduciary for a men-
tally or physically incompetent individu-
al  who  has  to  file  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, sign your name for the indi-
vidual and file Form 56.
Child's Return
If your child can't sign their return, ei-
ther parent can sign the child's name in
the  space  provided.  Then,  enter  “By
(your  signature),  parent  for  minor
child.”
Requirements for a Paper
Return
You must handwrite your signature on
your return if you file it on paper. Digi-
tal, electronic, or typed-font signatures
are not valid signatures for Forms 1040
or 1040-SR filed on paper.
Requirements for an
Electronic Return
The requirements for signing an elec-
tronic return will be different depending
on whether you use tax software or a tax
practitioner. If you are filing electroni-
cally using Direct File, you should fol-
low the instructions provided to you by
Direct File for how to sign your elec-
tronic return. Otherwise, to file your re-
turn electronically, you must sign the re-
turn electronically using a personal iden-
tification number (PIN) and provide the
information described below. If you are
filing online using software, you must
use a Self-Select PIN. If you are filing
electronically using a tax practitioner,
you can use a Self-Select PIN or a Prac-
titioner PIN.
If we issued you an identity protec-
tion personal identification number (IP
PIN) (as described in more detail next),
all six digits of your IP PIN must appear
in the IP PIN spaces provided next to the
space for your occupation for your elec-
tronic signature to be complete. Failure
to include an issued IP PIN on the elec-
tronic return will result in an invalid sig-
nature and a rejected return. If you are
filing a joint return and both taxpayers
were issued an IP PIN, enter both IP
PINs in the spaces provided.
Self-Select  PIN.  The  Self-Select  PIN
method allows you to create your own
PIN. If you are married filing jointly,
you and your spouse will each need to
create a PIN and enter these PINs as
your electronic signatures.
A PIN is any combination of five dig-
its you choose except five zeros. If you
use a PIN, there are no papers to sign
and  nothing  to  mail—not  even  your
Form(s) W-2.
Your electronic return signed with a
Self-Select PIN is considered a validly
signed return only when it includes your
PIN, last name, date of birth, IP PIN, if
applicable, and your adjusted gross in-
come (AGI) from your originally filed
2023 federal income tax return, if appli-
cable. If you're filing jointly, your elec-
tronic  return  must  also  include  your
spouse's PIN, last name, date of birth, IP
PIN, if applicable, and AGI, if applica-
ble, in order to be considered validly
signed. (You, and your spouse if filing
jointly,  may  each  use  your  own  pri-
or-year PIN to verify your identity if
you filed electronically last year. If you
use your prior-year PIN or enter your IP
PIN, you are not required to enter your
prior-year AGI. The prior-year PIN is
the five-digit PIN you used to electroni-
cally sign your 2023 return.)
If you need your AGI from your orig-
inally filed 2023 federal income tax re-
turn, and you don’t have your 2023 in-
come tax return, you can access your
transcript through your online account at
IRS.gov/Account .  You  can  also  go  to
IRS.gov/Transcript  or  call  the  IRS  at
800-908-9946 to get a free transcript of
your return. Don’t use your AGI from an
amended  return  (Form  1040-X)  or  a
math error correction made by the IRS.
AGI is the amount shown on your 2023
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/
Efile .
You  can't  use  the  Self-Select
PIN  method  if  you  are  a
first-time filer under age 16 at
the end of 2024.
Practitioner PIN.  The Practitioner PIN
method allows you to authorize your tax
practitioner to enter or generate your
PIN. Your electronic return is considered
a validly signed return only when it in-
cludes  your  PIN,  last  name,  date  of
birth, and IP PIN, if applicable. If you're
filing jointly, your electronic return must
also  include  your  spouse's  PIN,  last
name, date of birth, and IP PIN, if appli-
cable, in order to be considered validly
signed. The practitioner can provide you
with details.
Form 8453.  You must send in a paper
Form 8453 if you have to attach certain
forms or other documents that can't be
electronically filed. See Form 8453.
Identity Protection
PIN
All taxpayers are now eligible
for an Identity Protection Per-
sonal Identification Number (IP
PIN). For more information, see Pub.
5477. To apply for an IP PIN, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN  and use the  Get an IP
PIN  tool.
If you received an IP PIN from the IRS,
enter it in the IP PIN spaces provided
next to the space for your occupation.
You must correctly enter all six numbers
of your IP PIN. If you didn't receive an
IP PIN, leave these spaces blank.
New IP PINs are generated ev-
ery year. They will generally be
sent out by mid-January 2025.
Use this IP PIN on your 2024 return as
well as any prior-year returns you file in
2025.
If you are filing a joint return and
both taxpayers receive an IP PIN, enter
both IP PINs in the spaces provided.
CAUTION
!
TIP
CAUTION
!
62  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 63 ===
If you need more information, includ-
ing how to retrieve your IP PIN online,
go to  IRS.gov/IPPIN . If you’re unable to
retrieve your IP PIN online, you can call
800-908-4490.
Phone Number and Email
Address
You have the option of entering your
phone number and email address in the
spaces provided. There will be no effect
on the processing of your return if you
choose  not  to  enter  this  information.
Note that the IRS initiates most contacts
through regular mail delivered by the
United States Postal Service.
For  information  on  how  to  report
phone  scams  or  unsolicited  emails
claiming to be from the IRS, see  Secure
Your Tax Records From Identity Theft ,
later.
Paid Preparer Must
Sign Your Return
Generally, anyone you pay to prepare
your return must sign it and include their
Preparer  Tax  Identification  Number
(PTIN) in the space provided. The pre-
parer must give you a copy of the return
for your records. Someone who prepares
your  return  but  doesn't  charge  you
shouldn’t sign your return.
If  your  paid  preparer  is  self-em-
ployed,  then  they  should  check  the
“self-employed” checkbox.
Assemble Your
Return
Assemble any schedules and forms be-
hind Form 1040 or 1040-SR in order of
the “Attachment Sequence No.” shown
in the upper-right corner of the schedule
or form. If you have supporting state-
ments, arrange them in the same order as
the schedules or forms they support and
attach them last. File your return, sched-
ules, and other attachments on standard
size paper. Cutting the paper may cause
problems  in  processing  your  return.
Don’t  attach  correspondence  or  other
items unless required to do so. Attach
Forms W-2 and 2439 to Form 1040 or
1040-SR. If you received a Form W-2c
(a  corrected  Form  W-2),  attach  your
original  Forms  W-2  and  any  Forms
W-2c. Attach Forms W-2G and 1099-R
to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if tax was
withheld.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  63

=== PAGE 64 ===
2024
Tax Table
CAUTION
!
See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the
Tax Table below to figure your tax.
At
Least
But
Less
Than
Single  Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
sepa-
rately
Head
of a
house-
hold
Your tax is—
25,200
25,250
25,300
25,350
2,795
2,801
2,807
2,813
Sample Table
25,250
25,300
25,350
25,400
2,563
2,569
2,581
2,795
2,801
2,807
2,813
2,696
2,702
2,708
2,714
2,575
Example.  A married couple is filing a joint return. Their taxable
income on Form 1040, line 15, is $25,300. First, they find the
$25,300-25,350 taxable income line. Next, they find the column for
married filing jointly and read down the column. The amount shown
where the taxable income line and filing status column meet is
$2,575. This is the tax amount they should enter in the entry space
on Form 1040, line 16.
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
0  5  0  0  0  0
5  15  1  1  1  1
15  25  2  2  2  2
25  50  4  4  4  4
50  75  6  6  6  6
75  100  9  9  9  9
100  125  11  11  11  11
125  150  14  14  14  14
150  175  16  16  16  16
175  200  19  19  19  19
200  225  21  21  21  21
225  250  24  24  24  24
250  275  26  26  26  26
275  300  29  29  29  29
300  325  31  31  31  31
325  350  34  34  34  34
350  375  36  36  36  36
375  400  39  39  39  39
400  425  41  41  41  41
425  450  44  44  44  44
450  475  46  46  46  46
475  500  49  49  49  49
500  525  51  51  51  51
525  550  54  54  54  54
550  575  56  56  56  56
575  600  59  59  59  59
600  625  61  61  61  61
625  650  64  64  64  64
650  675  66  66  66  66
675  700  69  69  69  69
700  725  71  71  71  71
725  750  74  74  74  74
750  775  76  76  76  76
775  800  79  79  79  79
800  825  81  81  81  81
825  850  84  84  84  84
850  875  86  86  86  86
875  900  89  89  89  89
900  925  91  91  91  91
925  950  94  94  94  94
950  975  96  96  96  96
975  1,000  99  99  99  99
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
1,000
1,000  1,025  101  101  101  101
1,025  1,050  104  104  104  104
1,050  1,075  106  106  106  106
1,075  1,100  109  109  109  109
1,100  1,125  111  111  111  111
1,125  1,150  114  114  114  114
1,150  1,175  116  116  116  116
1,175  1,200  119  119  119  119
1,200  1,225  121  121  121  121
1,225  1,250  124  124  124  124
1,250  1,275  126  126  126  126
1,275  1,300  129  129  129  129
1,300  1,325  131  131  131  131
1,325  1,350  134  134  134  134
1,350  1,375  136  136  136  136
1,375  1,400  139  139  139  139
1,400  1,425  141  141  141  141
1,425  1,450  144  144  144  144
1,450  1,475  146  146  146  146
1,475  1,500  149  149  149  149
1,500  1,525  151  151  151  151
1,525  1,550  154  154  154  154
1,550  1,575  156  156  156  156
1,575  1,600  159  159  159  159
1,600  1,625  161  161  161  161
1,625  1,650  164  164  164  164
1,650  1,675  166  166  166  166
1,675  1,700  169  169  169  169
1,700  1,725  171  171  171  171
1,725  1,750  174  174  174  174
1,750  1,775  176  176  176  176
1,775  1,800  179  179  179  179
1,800  1,825  181  181  181  181
1,825  1,850  184  184  184  184
1,850  1,875  186  186  186  186
1,875  1,900  189  189  189  189
1,900  1,925  191  191  191  191
1,925  1,950  194  194  194  194
1,950  1,975  196  196  196  196
1,975  2,000  199  199  199  199
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
2,000
2,000  2,025  201  201  201  201
2,025  2,050  204  204  204  204
2,050  2,075  206  206  206  206
2,075  2,100  209  209  209  209
2,100  2,125  211  211  211  211
2,125  2,150  214  214  214  214
2,150  2,175  216  216  216  216
2,175  2,200  219  219  219  219
2,200  2,225  221  221  221  221
2,225  2,250  224  224  224  224
2,250  2,275  226  226  226  226
2,275  2,300  229  229  229  229
2,300  2,325  231  231  231  231
2,325  2,350  234  234  234  234
2,350  2,375  236  236  236  236
2,375  2,400  239  239  239  239
2,400  2,425  241  241  241  241
2,425  2,450  244  244  244  244
2,450  2,475  246  246  246  246
2,475  2,500  249  249  249  249
2,500  2,525  251  251  251  251
2,525  2,550  254  254  254  254
2,550  2,575  256  256  256  256
2,575  2,600  259  259  259  259
2,600  2,625  261  261  261  261
2,625  2,650  264  264  264  264
2,650  2,675  266  266  266  266
2,675  2,700  269  269  269  269
2,700  2,725  271  271  271  271
2,725  2,750  274  274  274  274
2,750  2,775  276  276  276  276
2,775  2,800  279  279  279  279
2,800  2,825  281  281  281  281
2,825  2,850  284  284  284  284
2,850  2,875  286  286  286  286
2,875  2,900  289  289  289  289
2,900  2,925  291  291  291  291
2,925  2,950  294  294  294  294
2,950  2,975  296  296  296  296
2,975  3,000  299  299  299  299
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
64  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 65 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
3,000
3,000  3,050  303  303  303  303
3,050  3,100  308  308  308  308
3,100  3,150  313  313  313  313
3,150  3,200  318  318  318  318
3,200  3,250  323  323  323  323
3,250  3,300  328  328  328  328
3,300  3,350  333  333  333  333
3,350  3,400  338  338  338  338
3,400  3,450  343  343  343  343
3,450  3,500  348  348  348  348
3,500  3,550  353  353  353  353
3,550  3,600  358  358  358  358
3,600  3,650  363  363  363  363
3,650  3,700  368  368  368  368
3,700  3,750  373  373  373  373
3,750  3,800  378  378  378  378
3,800  3,850  383  383  383  383
3,850  3,900  388  388  388  388
3,900  3,950  393  393  393  393
3,950  4,000  398  398  398  398
4,000
4,000  4,050  403  403  403  403
4,050  4,100  408  408  408  408
4,100  4,150  413  413  413  413
4,150  4,200  418  418  418  418
4,200  4,250  423  423  423  423
4,250  4,300  428  428  428  428
4,300  4,350  433  433  433  433
4,350  4,400  438  438  438  438
4,400  4,450  443  443  443  443
4,450  4,500  448  448  448  448
4,500  4,550  453  453  453  453
4,550  4,600  458  458  458  458
4,600  4,650  463  463  463  463
4,650  4,700  468  468  468  468
4,700  4,750  473  473  473  473
4,750  4,800  478  478  478  478
4,800  4,850  483  483  483  483
4,850  4,900  488  488  488  488
4,900  4,950  493  493  493  493
4,950  5,000  498  498  498  498
5,000
5,000  5,050  503  503  503  503
5,050  5,100  508  508  508  508
5,100  5,150  513  513  513  513
5,150  5,200  518  518  518  518
5,200  5,250  523  523  523  523
5,250  5,300  528  528  528  528
5,300  5,350  533  533  533  533
5,350  5,400  538  538  538  538
5,400  5,450  543  543  543  543
5,450  5,500  548  548  548  548
5,500  5,550  553  553  553  553
5,550  5,600  558  558  558  558
5,600  5,650  563  563  563  563
5,650  5,700  568  568  568  568
5,700  5,750  573  573  573  573
5,750  5,800  578  578  578  578
5,800  5,850  583  583  583  583
5,850  5,900  588  588  588  588
5,900  5,950  593  593  593  593
5,950  6,000  598  598  598  598
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
6,000
6,000  6,050  603  603  603  603
6,050  6,100  608  608  608  608
6,100  6,150  613  613  613  613
6,150  6,200  618  618  618  618
6,200  6,250  623  623  623  623
6,250  6,300  628  628  628  628
6,300  6,350  633  633  633  633
6,350  6,400  638  638  638  638
6,400  6,450  643  643  643  643
6,450  6,500  648  648  648  648
6,500  6,550  653  653  653  653
6,550  6,600  658  658  658  658
6,600  6,650  663  663  663  663
6,650  6,700  668  668  668  668
6,700  6,750  673  673  673  673
6,750  6,800  678  678  678  678
6,800  6,850  683  683  683  683
6,850  6,900  688  688  688  688
6,900  6,950  693  693  693  693
6,950  7,000  698  698  698  698
7,000
7,000  7,050  703  703  703  703
7,050  7,100  708  708  708  708
7,100  7,150  713  713  713  713
7,150  7,200  718  718  718  718
7,200  7,250  723  723  723  723
7,250  7,300  728  728  728  728
7,300  7,350  733  733  733  733
7,350  7,400  738  738  738  738
7,400  7,450  743  743  743  743
7,450  7,500  748  748  748  748
7,500  7,550  753  753  753  753
7,550  7,600  758  758  758  758
7,600  7,650  763  763  763  763
7,650  7,700  768  768  768  768
7,700  7,750  773  773  773  773
7,750  7,800  778  778  778  778
7,800  7,850  783  783  783  783
7,850  7,900  788  788  788  788
7,900  7,950  793  793  793  793
7,950  8,000  798  798  798  798
8,000
8,000  8,050  803  803  803  803
8,050  8,100  808  808  808  808
8,100  8,150  813  813  813  813
8,150  8,200  818  818  818  818
8,200  8,250  823  823  823  823
8,250  8,300  828  828  828  828
8,300  8,350  833  833  833  833
8,350  8,400  838  838  838  838
8,400  8,450  843  843  843  843
8,450  8,500  848  848  848  848
8,500  8,550  853  853  853  853
8,550  8,600  858  858  858  858
8,600  8,650  863  863  863  863
8,650  8,700  868  868  868  868
8,700  8,750  873  873  873  873
8,750  8,800  878  878  878  878
8,800  8,850  883  883  883  883
8,850  8,900  888  888  888  888
8,900  8,950  893  893  893  893
8,950  9,000  898  898  898  898
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
9,000
9,000  9,050  903  903  903  903
9,050  9,100  908  908  908  908
9,100  9,150  913  913  913  913
9,150  9,200  918  918  918  918
9,200  9,250  923  923  923  923
9,250  9,300  928  928  928  928
9,300  9,350  933  933  933  933
9,350  9,400  938  938  938  938
9,400  9,450  943  943  943  943
9,450  9,500  948  948  948  948
9,500  9,550  953  953  953  953
9,550  9,600  958  958  958  958
9,600  9,650  963  963  963  963
9,650  9,700  968  968  968  968
9,700  9,750  973  973  973  973
9,750  9,800  978  978  978  978
9,800  9,850  983  983  983  983
9,850  9,900  988  988  988  988
9,900  9,950  993  993  993  993
9,950  10,000  998  998  998  998
10,000
10,000  10,050  1,003  1,003  1,003  1,003
10,050  10,100  1,008  1,008  1,008  1,008
10,100  10,150  1,013  1,013  1,013  1,013
10,150  10,200  1,018  1,018  1,018  1,018
10,200  10,250  1,023  1,023  1,023  1,023
10,250  10,300  1,028  1,028  1,028  1,028
10,300  10,350  1,033  1,033  1,033  1,033
10,350  10,400  1,038  1,038  1,038  1,038
10,400  10,450  1,043  1,043  1,043  1,043
10,450  10,500  1,048  1,048  1,048  1,048
10,500  10,550  1,053  1,053  1,053  1,053
10,550  10,600  1,058  1,058  1,058  1,058
10,600  10,650  1,063  1,063  1,063  1,063
10,650  10,700  1,068  1,068  1,068  1,068
10,700  10,750  1,073  1,073  1,073  1,073
10,750  10,800  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078
10,800  10,850  1,083  1,083  1,083  1,083
10,850  10,900  1,088  1,088  1,088  1,088
10,900  10,950  1,093  1,093  1,093  1,093
10,950  11,000  1,098  1,098  1,098  1,098
11,000
11,000  11,050  1,103  1,103  1,103  1,103
11,050  11,100  1,108  1,108  1,108  1,108
11,100  11,150  1,113  1,113  1,113  1,113
11,150  11,200  1,118  1,118  1,118  1,118
11,200  11,250  1,123  1,123  1,123  1,123
11,250  11,300  1,128  1,128  1,128  1,128
11,300  11,350  1,133  1,133  1,133  1,133
11,350  11,400  1,138  1,138  1,138  1,138
11,400  11,450  1,143  1,143  1,143  1,143
11,450  11,500  1,148  1,148  1,148  1,148
11,500  11,550  1,153  1,153  1,153  1,153
11,550  11,600  1,158  1,158  1,158  1,158
11,600  11,650  1,163  1,163  1,163  1,163
11,650  11,700  1,169  1,168  1,169  1,168
11,700  11,750  1,175  1,173  1,175  1,173
11,750  11,800  1,181  1,178  1,181  1,178
11,800  11,850  1,187  1,183  1,187  1,183
11,850  11,900  1,193  1,188  1,193  1,188
11,900  11,950  1,199  1,193  1,199  1,193
11,950  12,000  1,205  1,198  1,205  1,198
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  65

=== PAGE 66 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
12,000
12,000  12,050  1,211  1,203  1,211  1,203
12,050  12,100  1,217  1,208  1,217  1,208
12,100  12,150  1,223  1,213  1,223  1,213
12,150  12,200  1,229  1,218  1,229  1,218
12,200  12,250  1,235  1,223  1,235  1,223
12,250  12,300  1,241  1,228  1,241  1,228
12,300  12,350  1,247  1,233  1,247  1,233
12,350  12,400  1,253  1,238  1,253  1,238
12,400  12,450  1,259  1,243  1,259  1,243
12,450  12,500  1,265  1,248  1,265  1,248
12,500  12,550  1,271  1,253  1,271  1,253
12,550  12,600  1,277  1,258  1,277  1,258
12,600  12,650  1,283  1,263  1,283  1,263
12,650  12,700  1,289  1,268  1,289  1,268
12,700  12,750  1,295  1,273  1,295  1,273
12,750  12,800  1,301  1,278  1,301  1,278
12,800  12,850  1,307  1,283  1,307  1,283
12,850  12,900  1,313  1,288  1,313  1,288
12,900  12,950  1,319  1,293  1,319  1,293
12,950  13,000  1,325  1,298  1,325  1,298
13,000
13,000  13,050  1,331  1,303  1,331  1,303
13,050  13,100  1,337  1,308  1,337  1,308
13,100  13,150  1,343  1,313  1,343  1,313
13,150  13,200  1,349  1,318  1,349  1,318
13,200  13,250  1,355  1,323  1,355  1,323
13,250  13,300  1,361  1,328  1,361  1,328
13,300  13,350  1,367  1,333  1,367  1,333
13,350  13,400  1,373  1,338  1,373  1,338
13,400  13,450  1,379  1,343  1,379  1,343
13,450  13,500  1,385  1,348  1,385  1,348
13,500  13,550  1,391  1,353  1,391  1,353
13,550  13,600  1,397  1,358  1,397  1,358
13,600  13,650  1,403  1,363  1,403  1,363
13,650  13,700  1,409  1,368  1,409  1,368
13,700  13,750  1,415  1,373  1,415  1,373
13,750  13,800  1,421  1,378  1,421  1,378
13,800  13,850  1,427  1,383  1,427  1,383
13,850  13,900  1,433  1,388  1,433  1,388
13,900  13,950  1,439  1,393  1,439  1,393
13,950  14,000  1,445  1,398  1,445  1,398
14,000
14,000  14,050  1,451  1,403  1,451  1,403
14,050  14,100  1,457  1,408  1,457  1,408
14,100  14,150  1,463  1,413  1,463  1,413
14,150  14,200  1,469  1,418  1,469  1,418
14,200  14,250  1,475  1,423  1,475  1,423
14,250  14,300  1,481  1,428  1,481  1,428
14,300  14,350  1,487  1,433  1,487  1,433
14,350  14,400  1,493  1,438  1,493  1,438
14,400  14,450  1,499  1,443  1,499  1,443
14,450  14,500  1,505  1,448  1,505  1,448
14,500  14,550  1,511  1,453  1,511  1,453
14,550  14,600  1,517  1,458  1,517  1,458
14,600  14,650  1,523  1,463  1,523  1,463
14,650  14,700  1,529  1,468  1,529  1,468
14,700  14,750  1,535  1,473  1,535  1,473
14,750  14,800  1,541  1,478  1,541  1,478
14,800  14,850  1,547  1,483  1,547  1,483
14,850  14,900  1,553  1,488  1,553  1,488
14,900  14,950  1,559  1,493  1,559  1,493
14,950  15,000  1,565  1,498  1,565  1,498
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
15,000
15,000  15,050  1,571  1,503  1,571  1,503
15,050  15,100  1,577  1,508  1,577  1,508
15,100  15,150  1,583  1,513  1,583  1,513
15,150  15,200  1,589  1,518  1,589  1,518
15,200  15,250  1,595  1,523  1,595  1,523
15,250  15,300  1,601  1,528  1,601  1,528
15,300  15,350  1,607  1,533  1,607  1,533
15,350  15,400  1,613  1,538  1,613  1,538
15,400  15,450  1,619  1,543  1,619  1,543
15,450  15,500  1,625  1,548  1,625  1,548
15,500  15,550  1,631  1,553  1,631  1,553
15,550  15,600  1,637  1,558  1,637  1,558
15,600  15,650  1,643  1,563  1,643  1,563
15,650  15,700  1,649  1,568  1,649  1,568
15,700  15,750  1,655  1,573  1,655  1,573
15,750  15,800  1,661  1,578  1,661  1,578
15,800  15,850  1,667  1,583  1,667  1,583
15,850  15,900  1,673  1,588  1,673  1,588
15,900  15,950  1,679  1,593  1,679  1,593
15,950  16,000  1,685  1,598  1,685  1,598
16,000
16,000  16,050  1,691  1,603  1,691  1,603
16,050  16,100  1,697  1,608  1,697  1,608
16,100  16,150  1,703  1,613  1,703  1,613
16,150  16,200  1,709  1,618  1,709  1,618
16,200  16,250  1,715  1,623  1,715  1,623
16,250  16,300  1,721  1,628  1,721  1,628
16,300  16,350  1,727  1,633  1,727  1,633
16,350  16,400  1,733  1,638  1,733  1,638
16,400  16,450  1,739  1,643  1,739  1,643
16,450  16,500  1,745  1,648  1,745  1,648
16,500  16,550  1,751  1,653  1,751  1,653
16,550  16,600  1,757  1,658  1,757  1,658
16,600  16,650  1,763  1,663  1,763  1,664
16,650  16,700  1,769  1,668  1,769  1,670
16,700  16,750  1,775  1,673  1,775  1,676
16,750  16,800  1,781  1,678  1,781  1,682
16,800  16,850  1,787  1,683  1,787  1,688
16,850  16,900  1,793  1,688  1,793  1,694
16,900  16,950  1,799  1,693  1,799  1,700
16,950  17,000  1,805  1,698  1,805  1,706
17,000
17,000  17,050  1,811  1,703  1,811  1,712
17,050  17,100  1,817  1,708  1,817  1,718
17,100  17,150  1,823  1,713  1,823  1,724
17,150  17,200  1,829  1,718  1,829  1,730
17,200  17,250  1,835  1,723  1,835  1,736
17,250  17,300  1,841  1,728  1,841  1,742
17,300  17,350  1,847  1,733  1,847  1,748
17,350  17,400  1,853  1,738  1,853  1,754
17,400  17,450  1,859  1,743  1,859  1,760
17,450  17,500  1,865  1,748  1,865  1,766
17,500  17,550  1,871  1,753  1,871  1,772
17,550  17,600  1,877  1,758  1,877  1,778
17,600  17,650  1,883  1,763  1,883  1,784
17,650  17,700  1,889  1,768  1,889  1,790
17,700  17,750  1,895  1,773  1,895  1,796
17,750  17,800  1,901  1,778  1,901  1,802
17,800  17,850  1,907  1,783  1,907  1,808
17,850  17,900  1,913  1,788  1,913  1,814
17,900  17,950  1,919  1,793  1,919  1,820
17,950  18,000  1,925  1,798  1,925  1,826
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
18,000
18,000  18,050  1,931  1,803  1,931  1,832
18,050  18,100  1,937  1,808  1,937  1,838
18,100  18,150  1,943  1,813  1,943  1,844
18,150  18,200  1,949  1,818  1,949  1,850
18,200  18,250  1,955  1,823  1,955  1,856
18,250  18,300  1,961  1,828  1,961  1,862
18,300  18,350  1,967  1,833  1,967  1,868
18,350  18,400  1,973  1,838  1,973  1,874
18,400  18,450  1,979  1,843  1,979  1,880
18,450  18,500  1,985  1,848  1,985  1,886
18,500  18,550  1,991  1,853  1,991  1,892
18,550  18,600  1,997  1,858  1,997  1,898
18,600  18,650  2,003  1,863  2,003  1,904
18,650  18,700  2,009  1,868  2,009  1,910
18,700  18,750  2,015  1,873  2,015  1,916
18,750  18,800  2,021  1,878  2,021  1,922
18,800  18,850  2,027  1,883  2,027  1,928
18,850  18,900  2,033  1,888  2,033  1,934
18,900  18,950  2,039  1,893  2,039  1,940
18,950  19,000  2,045  1,898  2,045  1,946
19,000
19,000  19,050  2,051  1,903  2,051  1,952
19,050  19,100  2,057  1,908  2,057  1,958
19,100  19,150  2,063  1,913  2,063  1,964
19,150  19,200  2,069  1,918  2,069  1,970
19,200  19,250  2,075  1,923  2,075  1,976
19,250  19,300  2,081  1,928  2,081  1,982
19,300  19,350  2,087  1,933  2,087  1,988
19,350  19,400  2,093  1,938  2,093  1,994
19,400  19,450  2,099  1,943  2,099  2,000
19,450  19,500  2,105  1,948  2,105  2,006
19,500  19,550  2,111  1,953  2,111  2,012
19,550  19,600  2,117  1,958  2,117  2,018
19,600  19,650  2,123  1,963  2,123  2,024
19,650  19,700  2,129  1,968  2,129  2,030
19,700  19,750  2,135  1,973  2,135  2,036
19,750  19,800  2,141  1,978  2,141  2,042
19,800  19,850  2,147  1,983  2,147  2,048
19,850  19,900  2,153  1,988  2,153  2,054
19,900  19,950  2,159  1,993  2,159  2,060
19,950  20,000  2,165  1,998  2,165  2,066
20,000
20,000  20,050  2,171  2,003  2,171  2,072
20,050  20,100  2,177  2,008  2,177  2,078
20,100  20,150  2,183  2,013  2,183  2,084
20,150  20,200  2,189  2,018  2,189  2,090
20,200  20,250  2,195  2,023  2,195  2,096
20,250  20,300  2,201  2,028  2,201  2,102
20,300  20,350  2,207  2,033  2,207  2,108
20,350  20,400  2,213  2,038  2,213  2,114
20,400  20,450  2,219  2,043  2,219  2,120
20,450  20,500  2,225  2,048  2,225  2,126
20,500  20,550  2,231  2,053  2,231  2,132
20,550  20,600  2,237  2,058  2,237  2,138
20,600  20,650  2,243  2,063  2,243  2,144
20,650  20,700  2,249  2,068  2,249  2,150
20,700  20,750  2,255  2,073  2,255  2,156
20,750  20,800  2,261  2,078  2,261  2,162
20,800  20,850  2,267  2,083  2,267  2,168
20,850  20,900  2,273  2,088  2,273  2,174
20,900  20,950  2,279  2,093  2,279  2,180
20,950  21,000  2,285  2,098  2,285  2,186
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
66  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 67 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
21,000
21,000  21,050  2,291  2,103  2,291  2,192
21,050  21,100  2,297  2,108  2,297  2,198
21,100  21,150  2,303  2,113  2,303  2,204
21,150  21,200  2,309  2,118  2,309  2,210
21,200  21,250  2,315  2,123  2,315  2,216
21,250  21,300  2,321  2,128  2,321  2,222
21,300  21,350  2,327  2,133  2,327  2,228
21,350  21,400  2,333  2,138  2,333  2,234
21,400  21,450  2,339  2,143  2,339  2,240
21,450  21,500  2,345  2,148  2,345  2,246
21,500  21,550  2,351  2,153  2,351  2,252
21,550  21,600  2,357  2,158  2,357  2,258
21,600  21,650  2,363  2,163  2,363  2,264
21,650  21,700  2,369  2,168  2,369  2,270
21,700  21,750  2,375  2,173  2,375  2,276
21,750  21,800  2,381  2,178  2,381  2,282
21,800  21,850  2,387  2,183  2,387  2,288
21,850  21,900  2,393  2,188  2,393  2,294
21,900  21,950  2,399  2,193  2,399  2,300
21,950  22,000  2,405  2,198  2,405  2,306
22,000
22,000  22,050  2,411  2,203  2,411  2,312
22,050  22,100  2,417  2,208  2,417  2,318
22,100  22,150  2,423  2,213  2,423  2,324
22,150  22,200  2,429  2,218  2,429  2,330
22,200  22,250  2,435  2,223  2,435  2,336
22,250  22,300  2,441  2,228  2,441  2,342
22,300  22,350  2,447  2,233  2,447  2,348
22,350  22,400  2,453  2,238  2,453  2,354
22,400  22,450  2,459  2,243  2,459  2,360
22,450  22,500  2,465  2,248  2,465  2,366
22,500  22,550  2,471  2,253  2,471  2,372
22,550  22,600  2,477  2,258  2,477  2,378
22,600  22,650  2,483  2,263  2,483  2,384
22,650  22,700  2,489  2,268  2,489  2,390
22,700  22,750  2,495  2,273  2,495  2,396
22,750  22,800  2,501  2,278  2,501  2,402
22,800  22,850  2,507  2,283  2,507  2,408
22,850  22,900  2,513  2,288  2,513  2,414
22,900  22,950  2,519  2,293  2,519  2,420
22,950  23,000  2,525  2,298  2,525  2,426
23,000
23,000  23,050  2,531  2,303  2,531  2,432
23,050  23,100  2,537  2,308  2,537  2,438
23,100  23,150  2,543  2,313  2,543  2,444
23,150  23,200  2,549  2,318  2,549  2,450
23,200  23,250  2,555  2,323  2,555  2,456
23,250  23,300  2,561  2,329  2,561  2,462
23,300  23,350  2,567  2,335  2,567  2,468
23,350  23,400  2,573  2,341  2,573  2,474
23,400  23,450  2,579  2,347  2,579  2,480
23,450  23,500  2,585  2,353  2,585  2,486
23,500  23,550  2,591  2,359  2,591  2,492
23,550  23,600  2,597  2,365  2,597  2,498
23,600  23,650  2,603  2,371  2,603  2,504
23,650  23,700  2,609  2,377  2,609  2,510
23,700  23,750  2,615  2,383  2,615  2,516
23,750  23,800  2,621  2,389  2,621  2,522
23,800  23,850  2,627  2,395  2,627  2,528
23,850  23,900  2,633  2,401  2,633  2,534
23,900  23,950  2,639  2,407  2,639  2,540
23,950  24,000  2,645  2,413  2,645  2,546
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
24,000
24,000  24,050  2,651  2,419  2,651  2,552
24,050  24,100  2,657  2,425  2,657  2,558
24,100  24,150  2,663  2,431  2,663  2,564
24,150  24,200  2,669  2,437  2,669  2,570
24,200  24,250  2,675  2,443  2,675  2,576
24,250  24,300  2,681  2,449  2,681  2,582
24,300  24,350  2,687  2,455  2,687  2,588
24,350  24,400  2,693  2,461  2,693  2,594
24,400  24,450  2,699  2,467  2,699  2,600
24,450  24,500  2,705  2,473  2,705  2,606
24,500  24,550  2,711  2,479  2,711  2,612
24,550  24,600  2,717  2,485  2,717  2,618
24,600  24,650  2,723  2,491  2,723  2,624
24,650  24,700  2,729  2,497  2,729  2,630
24,700  24,750  2,735  2,503  2,735  2,636
24,750  24,800  2,741  2,509  2,741  2,642
24,800  24,850  2,747  2,515  2,747  2,648
24,850  24,900  2,753  2,521  2,753  2,654
24,900  24,950  2,759  2,527  2,759  2,660
24,950  25,000  2,765  2,533  2,765  2,666
25,000
25,000  25,050  2,771  2,539  2,771  2,672
25,050  25,100  2,777  2,545  2,777  2,678
25,100  25,150  2,783  2,551  2,783  2,684
25,150  25,200  2,789  2,557  2,789  2,690
25,200  25,250  2,795  2,563  2,795  2,696
25,250  25,300  2,801  2,569  2,801  2,702
25,300  25,350  2,807  2,575  2,807  2,708
25,350  25,400  2,813  2,581  2,813  2,714
25,400  25,450  2,819  2,587  2,819  2,720
25,450  25,500  2,825  2,593  2,825  2,726
25,500  25,550  2,831  2,599  2,831  2,732
25,550  25,600  2,837  2,605  2,837  2,738
25,600  25,650  2,843  2,611  2,843  2,744
25,650  25,700  2,849  2,617  2,849  2,750
25,700  25,750  2,855  2,623  2,855  2,756
25,750  25,800  2,861  2,629  2,861  2,762
25,800  25,850  2,867  2,635  2,867  2,768
25,850  25,900  2,873  2,641  2,873  2,774
25,900  25,950  2,879  2,647  2,879  2,780
25,950  26,000  2,885  2,653  2,885  2,786
26,000
26,000  26,050  2,891  2,659  2,891  2,792
26,050  26,100  2,897  2,665  2,897  2,798
26,100  26,150  2,903  2,671  2,903  2,804
26,150  26,200  2,909  2,677  2,909  2,810
26,200  26,250  2,915  2,683  2,915  2,816
26,250  26,300  2,921  2,689  2,921  2,822
26,300  26,350  2,927  2,695  2,927  2,828
26,350  26,400  2,933  2,701  2,933  2,834
26,400  26,450  2,939  2,707  2,939  2,840
26,450  26,500  2,945  2,713  2,945  2,846
26,500  26,550  2,951  2,719  2,951  2,852
26,550  26,600  2,957  2,725  2,957  2,858
26,600  26,650  2,963  2,731  2,963  2,864
26,650  26,700  2,969  2,737  2,969  2,870
26,700  26,750  2,975  2,743  2,975  2,876
26,750  26,800  2,981  2,749  2,981  2,882
26,800  26,850  2,987  2,755  2,987  2,888
26,850  26,900  2,993  2,761  2,993  2,894
26,900  26,950  2,999  2,767  2,999  2,900
26,950  27,000  3,005  2,773  3,005  2,906
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
27,000
27,000  27,050  3,011  2,779  3,011  2,912
27,050  27,100  3,017  2,785  3,017  2,918
27,100  27,150  3,023  2,791  3,023  2,924
27,150  27,200  3,029  2,797  3,029  2,930
27,200  27,250  3,035  2,803  3,035  2,936
27,250  27,300  3,041  2,809  3,041  2,942
27,300  27,350  3,047  2,815  3,047  2,948
27,350  27,400  3,053  2,821  3,053  2,954
27,400  27,450  3,059  2,827  3,059  2,960
27,450  27,500  3,065  2,833  3,065  2,966
27,500  27,550  3,071  2,839  3,071  2,972
27,550  27,600  3,077  2,845  3,077  2,978
27,600  27,650  3,083  2,851  3,083  2,984
27,650  27,700  3,089  2,857  3,089  2,990
27,700  27,750  3,095  2,863  3,095  2,996
27,750  27,800  3,101  2,869  3,101  3,002
27,800  27,850  3,107  2,875  3,107  3,008
27,850  27,900  3,113  2,881  3,113  3,014
27,900  27,950  3,119  2,887  3,119  3,020
27,950  28,000  3,125  2,893  3,125  3,026
28,000
28,000  28,050  3,131  2,899  3,131  3,032
28,050  28,100  3,137  2,905  3,137  3,038
28,100  28,150  3,143  2,911  3,143  3,044
28,150  28,200  3,149  2,917  3,149  3,050
28,200  28,250  3,155  2,923  3,155  3,056
28,250  28,300  3,161  2,929  3,161  3,062
28,300  28,350  3,167  2,935  3,167  3,068
28,350  28,400  3,173  2,941  3,173  3,074
28,400  28,450  3,179  2,947  3,179  3,080
28,450  28,500  3,185  2,953  3,185  3,086
28,500  28,550  3,191  2,959  3,191  3,092
28,550  28,600  3,197  2,965  3,197  3,098
28,600  28,650  3,203  2,971  3,203  3,104
28,650  28,700  3,209  2,977  3,209  3,110
28,700  28,750  3,215  2,983  3,215  3,116
28,750  28,800  3,221  2,989  3,221  3,122
28,800  28,850  3,227  2,995  3,227  3,128
28,850  28,900  3,233  3,001  3,233  3,134
28,900  28,950  3,239  3,007  3,239  3,140
28,950  29,000  3,245  3,013  3,245  3,146
29,000
29,000  29,050  3,251  3,019  3,251  3,152
29,050  29,100  3,257  3,025  3,257  3,158
29,100  29,150  3,263  3,031  3,263  3,164
29,150  29,200  3,269  3,037  3,269  3,170
29,200  29,250  3,275  3,043  3,275  3,176
29,250  29,300  3,281  3,049  3,281  3,182
29,300  29,350  3,287  3,055  3,287  3,188
29,350  29,400  3,293  3,061  3,293  3,194
29,400  29,450  3,299  3,067  3,299  3,200
29,450  29,500  3,305  3,073  3,305  3,206
29,500  29,550  3,311  3,079  3,311  3,212
29,550  29,600  3,317  3,085  3,317  3,218
29,600  29,650  3,323  3,091  3,323  3,224
29,650  29,700  3,329  3,097  3,329  3,230
29,700  29,750  3,335  3,103  3,335  3,236
29,750  29,800  3,341  3,109  3,341  3,242
29,800  29,850  3,347  3,115  3,347  3,248
29,850  29,900  3,353  3,121  3,353  3,254
29,900  29,950  3,359  3,127  3,359  3,260
29,950  30,000  3,365  3,133  3,365  3,266
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  67

=== PAGE 68 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
30,000
30,000  30,050  3,371  3,139  3,371  3,272
30,050  30,100  3,377  3,145  3,377  3,278
30,100  30,150  3,383  3,151  3,383  3,284
30,150  30,200  3,389  3,157  3,389  3,290
30,200  30,250  3,395  3,163  3,395  3,296
30,250  30,300  3,401  3,169  3,401  3,302
30,300  30,350  3,407  3,175  3,407  3,308
30,350  30,400  3,413  3,181  3,413  3,314
30,400  30,450  3,419  3,187  3,419  3,320
30,450  30,500  3,425  3,193  3,425  3,326
30,500  30,550  3,431  3,199  3,431  3,332
30,550  30,600  3,437  3,205  3,437  3,338
30,600  30,650  3,443  3,211  3,443  3,344
30,650  30,700  3,449  3,217  3,449  3,350
30,700  30,750  3,455  3,223  3,455  3,356
30,750  30,800  3,461  3,229  3,461  3,362
30,800  30,850  3,467  3,235  3,467  3,368
30,850  30,900  3,473  3,241  3,473  3,374
30,900  30,950  3,479  3,247  3,479  3,380
30,950  31,000  3,485  3,253  3,485  3,386
31,000
31,000  31,050  3,491  3,259  3,491  3,392
31,050  31,100  3,497  3,265  3,497  3,398
31,100  31,150  3,503  3,271  3,503  3,404
31,150  31,200  3,509  3,277  3,509  3,410
31,200  31,250  3,515  3,283  3,515  3,416
31,250  31,300  3,521  3,289  3,521  3,422
31,300  31,350  3,527  3,295  3,527  3,428
31,350  31,400  3,533  3,301  3,533  3,434
31,400  31,450  3,539  3,307  3,539  3,440
31,450  31,500  3,545  3,313  3,545  3,446
31,500  31,550  3,551  3,319  3,551  3,452
31,550  31,600  3,557  3,325  3,557  3,458
31,600  31,650  3,563  3,331  3,563  3,464
31,650  31,700  3,569  3,337  3,569  3,470
31,700  31,750  3,575  3,343  3,575  3,476
31,750  31,800  3,581  3,349  3,581  3,482
31,800  31,850  3,587  3,355  3,587  3,488
31,850  31,900  3,593  3,361  3,593  3,494
31,900  31,950  3,599  3,367  3,599  3,500
31,950  32,000  3,605  3,373  3,605  3,506
32,000
32,000  32,050  3,611  3,379  3,611  3,512
32,050  32,100  3,617  3,385  3,617  3,518
32,100  32,150  3,623  3,391  3,623  3,524
32,150  32,200  3,629  3,397  3,629  3,530
32,200  32,250  3,635  3,403  3,635  3,536
32,250  32,300  3,641  3,409  3,641  3,542
32,300  32,350  3,647  3,415  3,647  3,548
32,350  32,400  3,653  3,421  3,653  3,554
32,400  32,450  3,659  3,427  3,659  3,560
32,450  32,500  3,665  3,433  3,665  3,566
32,500  32,550  3,671  3,439  3,671  3,572
32,550  32,600  3,677  3,445  3,677  3,578
32,600  32,650  3,683  3,451  3,683  3,584
32,650  32,700  3,689  3,457  3,689  3,590
32,700  32,750  3,695  3,463  3,695  3,596
32,750  32,800  3,701  3,469  3,701  3,602
32,800  32,850  3,707  3,475  3,707  3,608
32,850  32,900  3,713  3,481  3,713  3,614
32,900  32,950  3,719  3,487  3,719  3,620
32,950  33,000  3,725  3,493  3,725  3,626
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
33,000
33,000  33,050  3,731  3,499  3,731  3,632
33,050  33,100  3,737  3,505  3,737  3,638
33,100  33,150  3,743  3,511  3,743  3,644
33,150  33,200  3,749  3,517  3,749  3,650
33,200  33,250  3,755  3,523  3,755  3,656
33,250  33,300  3,761  3,529  3,761  3,662
33,300  33,350  3,767  3,535  3,767  3,668
33,350  33,400  3,773  3,541  3,773  3,674
33,400  33,450  3,779  3,547  3,779  3,680
33,450  33,500  3,785  3,553  3,785  3,686
33,500  33,550  3,791  3,559  3,791  3,692
33,550  33,600  3,797  3,565  3,797  3,698
33,600  33,650  3,803  3,571  3,803  3,704
33,650  33,700  3,809  3,577  3,809  3,710
33,700  33,750  3,815  3,583  3,815  3,716
33,750  33,800  3,821  3,589  3,821  3,722
33,800  33,850  3,827  3,595  3,827  3,728
33,850  33,900  3,833  3,601  3,833  3,734
33,900  33,950  3,839  3,607  3,839  3,740
33,950  34,000  3,845  3,613  3,845  3,746
34,000
34,000  34,050  3,851  3,619  3,851  3,752
34,050  34,100  3,857  3,625  3,857  3,758
34,100  34,150  3,863  3,631  3,863  3,764
34,150  34,200  3,869  3,637  3,869  3,770
34,200  34,250  3,875  3,643  3,875  3,776
34,250  34,300  3,881  3,649  3,881  3,782
34,300  34,350  3,887  3,655  3,887  3,788
34,350  34,400  3,893  3,661  3,893  3,794
34,400  34,450  3,899  3,667  3,899  3,800
34,450  34,500  3,905  3,673  3,905  3,806
34,500  34,550  3,911  3,679  3,911  3,812
34,550  34,600  3,917  3,685  3,917  3,818
34,600  34,650  3,923  3,691  3,923  3,824
34,650  34,700  3,929  3,697  3,929  3,830
34,700  34,750  3,935  3,703  3,935  3,836
34,750  34,800  3,941  3,709  3,941  3,842
34,800  34,850  3,947  3,715  3,947  3,848
34,850  34,900  3,953  3,721  3,953  3,854
34,900  34,950  3,959  3,727  3,959  3,860
34,950  35,000  3,965  3,733  3,965  3,866
35,000
35,000  35,050  3,971  3,739  3,971  3,872
35,050  35,100  3,977  3,745  3,977  3,878
35,100  35,150  3,983  3,751  3,983  3,884
35,150  35,200  3,989  3,757  3,989  3,890
35,200  35,250  3,995  3,763  3,995  3,896
35,250  35,300  4,001  3,769  4,001  3,902
35,300  35,350  4,007  3,775  4,007  3,908
35,350  35,400  4,013  3,781  4,013  3,914
35,400  35,450  4,019  3,787  4,019  3,920
35,450  35,500  4,025  3,793  4,025  3,926
35,500  35,550  4,031  3,799  4,031  3,932
35,550  35,600  4,037  3,805  4,037  3,938
35,600  35,650  4,043  3,811  4,043  3,944
35,650  35,700  4,049  3,817  4,049  3,950
35,700  35,750  4,055  3,823  4,055  3,956
35,750  35,800  4,061  3,829  4,061  3,962
35,800  35,850  4,067  3,835  4,067  3,968
35,850  35,900  4,073  3,841  4,073  3,974
35,900  35,950  4,079  3,847  4,079  3,980
35,950  36,000  4,085  3,853  4,085  3,986
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
36,000
36,000  36,050  4,091  3,859  4,091  3,992
36,050  36,100  4,097  3,865  4,097  3,998
36,100  36,150  4,103  3,871  4,103  4,004
36,150  36,200  4,109  3,877  4,109  4,010
36,200  36,250  4,115  3,883  4,115  4,016
36,250  36,300  4,121  3,889  4,121  4,022
36,300  36,350  4,127  3,895  4,127  4,028
36,350  36,400  4,133  3,901  4,133  4,034
36,400  36,450  4,139  3,907  4,139  4,040
36,450  36,500  4,145  3,913  4,145  4,046
36,500  36,550  4,151  3,919  4,151  4,052
36,550  36,600  4,157  3,925  4,157  4,058
36,600  36,650  4,163  3,931  4,163  4,064
36,650  36,700  4,169  3,937  4,169  4,070
36,700  36,750  4,175  3,943  4,175  4,076
36,750  36,800  4,181  3,949  4,181  4,082
36,800  36,850  4,187  3,955  4,187  4,088
36,850  36,900  4,193  3,961  4,193  4,094
36,900  36,950  4,199  3,967  4,199  4,100
36,950  37,000  4,205  3,973  4,205  4,106
37,000
37,000  37,050  4,211  3,979  4,211  4,112
37,050  37,100  4,217  3,985  4,217  4,118
37,100  37,150  4,223  3,991  4,223  4,124
37,150  37,200  4,229  3,997  4,229  4,130
37,200  37,250  4,235  4,003  4,235  4,136
37,250  37,300  4,241  4,009  4,241  4,142
37,300  37,350  4,247  4,015  4,247  4,148
37,350  37,400  4,253  4,021  4,253  4,154
37,400  37,450  4,259  4,027  4,259  4,160
37,450  37,500  4,265  4,033  4,265  4,166
37,500  37,550  4,271  4,039  4,271  4,172
37,550  37,600  4,277  4,045  4,277  4,178
37,600  37,650  4,283  4,051  4,283  4,184
37,650  37,700  4,289  4,057  4,289  4,190
37,700  37,750  4,295  4,063  4,295  4,196
37,750  37,800  4,301  4,069  4,301  4,202
37,800  37,850  4,307  4,075  4,307  4,208
37,850  37,900  4,313  4,081  4,313  4,214
37,900  37,950  4,319  4,087  4,319  4,220
37,950  38,000  4,325  4,093  4,325  4,226
38,000
38,000  38,050  4,331  4,099  4,331  4,232
38,050  38,100  4,337  4,105  4,337  4,238
38,100  38,150  4,343  4,111  4,343  4,244
38,150  38,200  4,349  4,117  4,349  4,250
38,200  38,250  4,355  4,123  4,355  4,256
38,250  38,300  4,361  4,129  4,361  4,262
38,300  38,350  4,367  4,135  4,367  4,268
38,350  38,400  4,373  4,141  4,373  4,274
38,400  38,450  4,379  4,147  4,379  4,280
38,450  38,500  4,385  4,153  4,385  4,286
38,500  38,550  4,391  4,159  4,391  4,292
38,550  38,600  4,397  4,165  4,397  4,298
38,600  38,650  4,403  4,171  4,403  4,304
38,650  38,700  4,409  4,177  4,409  4,310
38,700  38,750  4,415  4,183  4,415  4,316
38,750  38,800  4,421  4,189  4,421  4,322
38,800  38,850  4,427  4,195  4,427  4,328
38,850  38,900  4,433  4,201  4,433  4,334
38,900  38,950  4,439  4,207  4,439  4,340
38,950  39,000  4,445  4,213  4,445  4,346
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
68  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 69 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
39,000
39,000  39,050  4,451  4,219  4,451  4,352
39,050  39,100  4,457  4,225  4,457  4,358
39,100  39,150  4,463  4,231  4,463  4,364
39,150  39,200  4,469  4,237  4,469  4,370
39,200  39,250  4,475  4,243  4,475  4,376
39,250  39,300  4,481  4,249  4,481  4,382
39,300  39,350  4,487  4,255  4,487  4,388
39,350  39,400  4,493  4,261  4,493  4,394
39,400  39,450  4,499  4,267  4,499  4,400
39,450  39,500  4,505  4,273  4,505  4,406
39,500  39,550  4,511  4,279  4,511  4,412
39,550  39,600  4,517  4,285  4,517  4,418
39,600  39,650  4,523  4,291  4,523  4,424
39,650  39,700  4,529  4,297  4,529  4,430
39,700  39,750  4,535  4,303  4,535  4,436
39,750  39,800  4,541  4,309  4,541  4,442
39,800  39,850  4,547  4,315  4,547  4,448
39,850  39,900  4,553  4,321  4,553  4,454
39,900  39,950  4,559  4,327  4,559  4,460
39,950  40,000  4,565  4,333  4,565  4,466
40,000
40,000  40,050  4,571  4,339  4,571  4,472
40,050  40,100  4,577  4,345  4,577  4,478
40,100  40,150  4,583  4,351  4,583  4,484
40,150  40,200  4,589  4,357  4,589  4,490
40,200  40,250  4,595  4,363  4,595  4,496
40,250  40,300  4,601  4,369  4,601  4,502
40,300  40,350  4,607  4,375  4,607  4,508
40,350  40,400  4,613  4,381  4,613  4,514
40,400  40,450  4,619  4,387  4,619  4,520
40,450  40,500  4,625  4,393  4,625  4,526
40,500  40,550  4,631  4,399  4,631  4,532
40,550  40,600  4,637  4,405  4,637  4,538
40,600  40,650  4,643  4,411  4,643  4,544
40,650  40,700  4,649  4,417  4,649  4,550
40,700  40,750  4,655  4,423  4,655  4,556
40,750  40,800  4,661  4,429  4,661  4,562
40,800  40,850  4,667  4,435  4,667  4,568
40,850  40,900  4,673  4,441  4,673  4,574
40,900  40,950  4,679  4,447  4,679  4,580
40,950  41,000  4,685  4,453  4,685  4,586
41,000
41,000  41,050  4,691  4,459  4,691  4,592
41,050  41,100  4,697  4,465  4,697  4,598
41,100  41,150  4,703  4,471  4,703  4,604
41,150  41,200  4,709  4,477  4,709  4,610
41,200  41,250  4,715  4,483  4,715  4,616
41,250  41,300  4,721  4,489  4,721  4,622
41,300  41,350  4,727  4,495  4,727  4,628
41,350  41,400  4,733  4,501  4,733  4,634
41,400  41,450  4,739  4,507  4,739  4,640
41,450  41,500  4,745  4,513  4,745  4,646
41,500  41,550  4,751  4,519  4,751  4,652
41,550  41,600  4,757  4,525  4,757  4,658
41,600  41,650  4,763  4,531  4,763  4,664
41,650  41,700  4,769  4,537  4,769  4,670
41,700  41,750  4,775  4,543  4,775  4,676
41,750  41,800  4,781  4,549  4,781  4,682
41,800  41,850  4,787  4,555  4,787  4,688
41,850  41,900  4,793  4,561  4,793  4,694
41,900  41,950  4,799  4,567  4,799  4,700
41,950  42,000  4,805  4,573  4,805  4,706
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
42,000
42,000  42,050  4,811  4,579  4,811  4,712
42,050  42,100  4,817  4,585  4,817  4,718
42,100  42,150  4,823  4,591  4,823  4,724
42,150  42,200  4,829  4,597  4,829  4,730
42,200  42,250  4,835  4,603  4,835  4,736
42,250  42,300  4,841  4,609  4,841  4,742
42,300  42,350  4,847  4,615  4,847  4,748
42,350  42,400  4,853  4,621  4,853  4,754
42,400  42,450  4,859  4,627  4,859  4,760
42,450  42,500  4,865  4,633  4,865  4,766
42,500  42,550  4,871  4,639  4,871  4,772
42,550  42,600  4,877  4,645  4,877  4,778
42,600  42,650  4,883  4,651  4,883  4,784
42,650  42,700  4,889  4,657  4,889  4,790
42,700  42,750  4,895  4,663  4,895  4,796
42,750  42,800  4,901  4,669  4,901  4,802
42,800  42,850  4,907  4,675  4,907  4,808
42,850  42,900  4,913  4,681  4,913  4,814
42,900  42,950  4,919  4,687  4,919  4,820
42,950  43,000  4,925  4,693  4,925  4,826
43,000
43,000  43,050  4,931  4,699  4,931  4,832
43,050  43,100  4,937  4,705  4,937  4,838
43,100  43,150  4,943  4,711  4,943  4,844
43,150  43,200  4,949  4,717  4,949  4,850
43,200  43,250  4,955  4,723  4,955  4,856
43,250  43,300  4,961  4,729  4,961  4,862
43,300  43,350  4,967  4,735  4,967  4,868
43,350  43,400  4,973  4,741  4,973  4,874
43,400  43,450  4,979  4,747  4,979  4,880
43,450  43,500  4,985  4,753  4,985  4,886
43,500  43,550  4,991  4,759  4,991  4,892
43,550  43,600  4,997  4,765  4,997  4,898
43,600  43,650  5,003  4,771  5,003  4,904
43,650  43,700  5,009  4,777  5,009  4,910
43,700  43,750  5,015  4,783  5,015  4,916
43,750  43,800  5,021  4,789  5,021  4,922
43,800  43,850  5,027  4,795  5,027  4,928
43,850  43,900  5,033  4,801  5,033  4,934
43,900  43,950  5,039  4,807  5,039  4,940
43,950  44,000  5,045  4,813  5,045  4,946
44,000
44,000  44,050  5,051  4,819  5,051  4,952
44,050  44,100  5,057  4,825  5,057  4,958
44,100  44,150  5,063  4,831  5,063  4,964
44,150  44,200  5,069  4,837  5,069  4,970
44,200  44,250  5,075  4,843  5,075  4,976
44,250  44,300  5,081  4,849  5,081  4,982
44,300  44,350  5,087  4,855  5,087  4,988
44,350  44,400  5,093  4,861  5,093  4,994
44,400  44,450  5,099  4,867  5,099  5,000
44,450  44,500  5,105  4,873  5,105  5,006
44,500  44,550  5,111  4,879  5,111  5,012
44,550  44,600  5,117  4,885  5,117  5,018
44,600  44,650  5,123  4,891  5,123  5,024
44,650  44,700  5,129  4,897  5,129  5,030
44,700  44,750  5,135  4,903  5,135  5,036
44,750  44,800  5,141  4,909  5,141  5,042
44,800  44,850  5,147  4,915  5,147  5,048
44,850  44,900  5,153  4,921  5,153  5,054
44,900  44,950  5,159  4,927  5,159  5,060
44,950  45,000  5,165  4,933  5,165  5,066
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
45,000
45,000  45,050  5,171  4,939  5,171  5,072
45,050  45,100  5,177  4,945  5,177  5,078
45,100  45,150  5,183  4,951  5,183  5,084
45,150  45,200  5,189  4,957  5,189  5,090
45,200  45,250  5,195  4,963  5,195  5,096
45,250  45,300  5,201  4,969  5,201  5,102
45,300  45,350  5,207  4,975  5,207  5,108
45,350  45,400  5,213  4,981  5,213  5,114
45,400  45,450  5,219  4,987  5,219  5,120
45,450  45,500  5,225  4,993  5,225  5,126
45,500  45,550  5,231  4,999  5,231  5,132
45,550  45,600  5,237  5,005  5,237  5,138
45,600  45,650  5,243  5,011  5,243  5,144
45,650  45,700  5,249  5,017  5,249  5,150
45,700  45,750  5,255  5,023  5,255  5,156
45,750  45,800  5,261  5,029  5,261  5,162
45,800  45,850  5,267  5,035  5,267  5,168
45,850  45,900  5,273  5,041  5,273  5,174
45,900  45,950  5,279  5,047  5,279  5,180
45,950  46,000  5,285  5,053  5,285  5,186
46,000
46,000  46,050  5,291  5,059  5,291  5,192
46,050  46,100  5,297  5,065  5,297  5,198
46,100  46,150  5,303  5,071  5,303  5,204
46,150  46,200  5,309  5,077  5,309  5,210
46,200  46,250  5,315  5,083  5,315  5,216
46,250  46,300  5,321  5,089  5,321  5,222
46,300  46,350  5,327  5,095  5,327  5,228
46,350  46,400  5,333  5,101  5,333  5,234
46,400  46,450  5,339  5,107  5,339  5,240
46,450  46,500  5,345  5,113  5,345  5,246
46,500  46,550  5,351  5,119  5,351  5,252
46,550  46,600  5,357  5,125  5,357  5,258
46,600  46,650  5,363  5,131  5,363  5,264
46,650  46,700  5,369  5,137  5,369  5,270
46,700  46,750  5,375  5,143  5,375  5,276
46,750  46,800  5,381  5,149  5,381  5,282
46,800  46,850  5,387  5,155  5,387  5,288
46,850  46,900  5,393  5,161  5,393  5,294
46,900  46,950  5,399  5,167  5,399  5,300
46,950  47,000  5,405  5,173  5,405  5,306
47,000
47,000  47,050  5,411  5,179  5,411  5,312
47,050  47,100  5,417  5,185  5,417  5,318
47,100  47,150  5,423  5,191  5,423  5,324
47,150  47,200  5,432  5,197  5,432  5,330
47,200  47,250  5,443  5,203  5,443  5,336
47,250  47,300  5,454  5,209  5,454  5,342
47,300  47,350  5,465  5,215  5,465  5,348
47,350  47,400  5,476  5,221  5,476  5,354
47,400  47,450  5,487  5,227  5,487  5,360
47,450  47,500  5,498  5,233  5,498  5,366
47,500  47,550  5,509  5,239  5,509  5,372
47,550  47,600  5,520  5,245  5,520  5,378
47,600  47,650  5,531  5,251  5,531  5,384
47,650  47,700  5,542  5,257  5,542  5,390
47,700  47,750  5,553  5,263  5,553  5,396
47,750  47,800  5,564  5,269  5,564  5,402
47,800  47,850  5,575  5,275  5,575  5,408
47,850  47,900  5,586  5,281  5,586  5,414
47,900  47,950  5,597  5,287  5,597  5,420
47,950  48,000  5,608  5,293  5,608  5,426
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  69

=== PAGE 70 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
48,000
48,000  48,050  5,619  5,299  5,619  5,432
48,050  48,100  5,630  5,305  5,630  5,438
48,100  48,150  5,641  5,311  5,641  5,444
48,150  48,200  5,652  5,317  5,652  5,450
48,200  48,250  5,663  5,323  5,663  5,456
48,250  48,300  5,674  5,329  5,674  5,462
48,300  48,350  5,685  5,335  5,685  5,468
48,350  48,400  5,696  5,341  5,696  5,474
48,400  48,450  5,707  5,347  5,707  5,480
48,450  48,500  5,718  5,353  5,718  5,486
48,500  48,550  5,729  5,359  5,729  5,492
48,550  48,600  5,740  5,365  5,740  5,498
48,600  48,650  5,751  5,371  5,751  5,504
48,650  48,700  5,762  5,377  5,762  5,510
48,700  48,750  5,773  5,383  5,773  5,516
48,750  48,800  5,784  5,389  5,784  5,522
48,800  48,850  5,795  5,395  5,795  5,528
48,850  48,900  5,806  5,401  5,806  5,534
48,900  48,950  5,817  5,407  5,817  5,540
48,950  49,000  5,828  5,413  5,828  5,546
49,000
49,000  49,050  5,839  5,419  5,839  5,552
49,050  49,100  5,850  5,425  5,850  5,558
49,100  49,150  5,861  5,431  5,861  5,564
49,150  49,200  5,872  5,437  5,872  5,570
49,200  49,250  5,883  5,443  5,883  5,576
49,250  49,300  5,894  5,449  5,894  5,582
49,300  49,350  5,905  5,455  5,905  5,588
49,350  49,400  5,916  5,461  5,916  5,594
49,400  49,450  5,927  5,467  5,927  5,600
49,450  49,500  5,938  5,473  5,938  5,606
49,500  49,550  5,949  5,479  5,949  5,612
49,550  49,600  5,960  5,485  5,960  5,618
49,600  49,650  5,971  5,491  5,971  5,624
49,650  49,700  5,982  5,497  5,982  5,630
49,700  49,750  5,993  5,503  5,993  5,636
49,750  49,800  6,004  5,509  6,004  5,642
49,800  49,850  6,015  5,515  6,015  5,648
49,850  49,900  6,026  5,521  6,026  5,654
49,900  49,950  6,037  5,527  6,037  5,660
49,950  50,000  6,048  5,533  6,048  5,666
50,000
50,000  50,050  6,059  5,539  6,059  5,672
50,050  50,100  6,070  5,545  6,070  5,678
50,100  50,150  6,081  5,551  6,081  5,684
50,150  50,200  6,092  5,557  6,092  5,690
50,200  50,250  6,103  5,563  6,103  5,696
50,250  50,300  6,114  5,569  6,114  5,702
50,300  50,350  6,125  5,575  6,125  5,708
50,350  50,400  6,136  5,581  6,136  5,714
50,400  50,450  6,147  5,587  6,147  5,720
50,450  50,500  6,158  5,593  6,158  5,726
50,500  50,550  6,169  5,599  6,169  5,732
50,550  50,600  6,180  5,605  6,180  5,738
50,600  50,650  6,191  5,611  6,191  5,744
50,650  50,700  6,202  5,617  6,202  5,750
50,700  50,750  6,213  5,623  6,213  5,756
50,750  50,800  6,224  5,629  6,224  5,762
50,800  50,850  6,235  5,635  6,235  5,768
50,850  50,900  6,246  5,641  6,246  5,774
50,900  50,950  6,257  5,647  6,257  5,780
50,950  51,000  6,268  5,653  6,268  5,786
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
51,000
51,000  51,050  6,279  5,659  6,279  5,792
51,050  51,100  6,290  5,665  6,290  5,798
51,100  51,150  6,301  5,671  6,301  5,804
51,150  51,200  6,312  5,677  6,312  5,810
51,200  51,250  6,323  5,683  6,323  5,816
51,250  51,300  6,334  5,689  6,334  5,822
51,300  51,350  6,345  5,695  6,345  5,828
51,350  51,400  6,356  5,701  6,356  5,834
51,400  51,450  6,367  5,707  6,367  5,840
51,450  51,500  6,378  5,713  6,378  5,846
51,500  51,550  6,389  5,719  6,389  5,852
51,550  51,600  6,400  5,725  6,400  5,858
51,600  51,650  6,411  5,731  6,411  5,864
51,650  51,700  6,422  5,737  6,422  5,870
51,700  51,750  6,433  5,743  6,433  5,876
51,750  51,800  6,444  5,749  6,444  5,882
51,800  51,850  6,455  5,755  6,455  5,888
51,850  51,900  6,466  5,761  6,466  5,894
51,900  51,950  6,477  5,767  6,477  5,900
51,950  52,000  6,488  5,773  6,488  5,906
52,000
52,000  52,050  6,499  5,779  6,499  5,912
52,050  52,100  6,510  5,785  6,510  5,918
52,100  52,150  6,521  5,791  6,521  5,924
52,150  52,200  6,532  5,797  6,532  5,930
52,200  52,250  6,543  5,803  6,543  5,936
52,250  52,300  6,554  5,809  6,554  5,942
52,300  52,350  6,565  5,815  6,565  5,948
52,350  52,400  6,576  5,821  6,576  5,954
52,400  52,450  6,587  5,827  6,587  5,960
52,450  52,500  6,598  5,833  6,598  5,966
52,500  52,550  6,609  5,839  6,609  5,972
52,550  52,600  6,620  5,845  6,620  5,978
52,600  52,650  6,631  5,851  6,631  5,984
52,650  52,700  6,642  5,857  6,642  5,990
52,700  52,750  6,653  5,863  6,653  5,996
52,750  52,800  6,664  5,869  6,664  6,002
52,800  52,850  6,675  5,875  6,675  6,008
52,850  52,900  6,686  5,881  6,686  6,014
52,900  52,950  6,697  5,887  6,697  6,020
52,950  53,000  6,708  5,893  6,708  6,026
53,000
53,000  53,050  6,719  5,899  6,719  6,032
53,050  53,100  6,730  5,905  6,730  6,038
53,100  53,150  6,741  5,911  6,741  6,044
53,150  53,200  6,752  5,917  6,752  6,050
53,200  53,250  6,763  5,923  6,763  6,056
53,250  53,300  6,774  5,929  6,774  6,062
53,300  53,350  6,785  5,935  6,785  6,068
53,350  53,400  6,796  5,941  6,796  6,074
53,400  53,450  6,807  5,947  6,807  6,080
53,450  53,500  6,818  5,953  6,818  6,086
53,500  53,550  6,829  5,959  6,829  6,092
53,550  53,600  6,840  5,965  6,840  6,098
53,600  53,650  6,851  5,971  6,851  6,104
53,650  53,700  6,862  5,977  6,862  6,110
53,700  53,750  6,873  5,983  6,873  6,116
53,750  53,800  6,884  5,989  6,884  6,122
53,800  53,850  6,895  5,995  6,895  6,128
53,850  53,900  6,906  6,001  6,906  6,134
53,900  53,950  6,917  6,007  6,917  6,140
53,950  54,000  6,928  6,013  6,928  6,146
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
54,000
54,000  54,050  6,939  6,019  6,939  6,152
54,050  54,100  6,950  6,025  6,950  6,158
54,100  54,150  6,961  6,031  6,961  6,164
54,150  54,200  6,972  6,037  6,972  6,170
54,200  54,250  6,983  6,043  6,983  6,176
54,250  54,300  6,994  6,049  6,994  6,182
54,300  54,350  7,005  6,055  7,005  6,188
54,350  54,400  7,016  6,061  7,016  6,194
54,400  54,450  7,027  6,067  7,027  6,200
54,450  54,500  7,038  6,073  7,038  6,206
54,500  54,550  7,049  6,079  7,049  6,212
54,550  54,600  7,060  6,085  7,060  6,218
54,600  54,650  7,071  6,091  7,071  6,224
54,650  54,700  7,082  6,097  7,082  6,230
54,700  54,750  7,093  6,103  7,093  6,236
54,750  54,800  7,104  6,109  7,104  6,242
54,800  54,850  7,115  6,115  7,115  6,248
54,850  54,900  7,126  6,121  7,126  6,254
54,900  54,950  7,137  6,127  7,137  6,260
54,950  55,000  7,148  6,133  7,148  6,266
55,000
55,000  55,050  7,159  6,139  7,159  6,272
55,050  55,100  7,170  6,145  7,170  6,278
55,100  55,150  7,181  6,151  7,181  6,284
55,150  55,200  7,192  6,157  7,192  6,290
55,200  55,250  7,203  6,163  7,203  6,296
55,250  55,300  7,214  6,169  7,214  6,302
55,300  55,350  7,225  6,175  7,225  6,308
55,350  55,400  7,236  6,181  7,236  6,314
55,400  55,450  7,247  6,187  7,247  6,320
55,450  55,500  7,258  6,193  7,258  6,326
55,500  55,550  7,269  6,199  7,269  6,332
55,550  55,600  7,280  6,205  7,280  6,338
55,600  55,650  7,291  6,211  7,291  6,344
55,650  55,700  7,302  6,217  7,302  6,350
55,700  55,750  7,313  6,223  7,313  6,356
55,750  55,800  7,324  6,229  7,324  6,362
55,800  55,850  7,335  6,235  7,335  6,368
55,850  55,900  7,346  6,241  7,346  6,374
55,900  55,950  7,357  6,247  7,357  6,380
55,950  56,000  7,368  6,253  7,368  6,386
56,000
56,000  56,050  7,379  6,259  7,379  6,392
56,050  56,100  7,390  6,265  7,390  6,398
56,100  56,150  7,401  6,271  7,401  6,404
56,150  56,200  7,412  6,277  7,412  6,410
56,200  56,250  7,423  6,283  7,423  6,416
56,250  56,300  7,434  6,289  7,434  6,422
56,300  56,350  7,445  6,295  7,445  6,428
56,350  56,400  7,456  6,301  7,456  6,434
56,400  56,450  7,467  6,307  7,467  6,440
56,450  56,500  7,478  6,313  7,478  6,446
56,500  56,550  7,489  6,319  7,489  6,452
56,550  56,600  7,500  6,325  7,500  6,458
56,600  56,650  7,511  6,331  7,511  6,464
56,650  56,700  7,522  6,337  7,522  6,470
56,700  56,750  7,533  6,343  7,533  6,476
56,750  56,800  7,544  6,349  7,544  6,482
56,800  56,850  7,555  6,355  7,555  6,488
56,850  56,900  7,566  6,361  7,566  6,494
56,900  56,950  7,577  6,367  7,577  6,500
56,950  57,000  7,588  6,373  7,588  6,506
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
70  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 71 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
57,000
57,000  57,050  7,599  6,379  7,599  6,512
57,050  57,100  7,610  6,385  7,610  6,518
57,100  57,150  7,621  6,391  7,621  6,524
57,150  57,200  7,632  6,397  7,632  6,530
57,200  57,250  7,643  6,403  7,643  6,536
57,250  57,300  7,654  6,409  7,654  6,542
57,300  57,350  7,665  6,415  7,665  6,548
57,350  57,400  7,676  6,421  7,676  6,554
57,400  57,450  7,687  6,427  7,687  6,560
57,450  57,500  7,698  6,433  7,698  6,566
57,500  57,550  7,709  6,439  7,709  6,572
57,550  57,600  7,720  6,445  7,720  6,578
57,600  57,650  7,731  6,451  7,731  6,584
57,650  57,700  7,742  6,457  7,742  6,590
57,700  57,750  7,753  6,463  7,753  6,596
57,750  57,800  7,764  6,469  7,764  6,602
57,800  57,850  7,775  6,475  7,775  6,608
57,850  57,900  7,786  6,481  7,786  6,614
57,900  57,950  7,797  6,487  7,797  6,620
57,950  58,000  7,808  6,493  7,808  6,626
58,000
58,000  58,050  7,819  6,499  7,819  6,632
58,050  58,100  7,830  6,505  7,830  6,638
58,100  58,150  7,841  6,511  7,841  6,644
58,150  58,200  7,852  6,517  7,852  6,650
58,200  58,250  7,863  6,523  7,863  6,656
58,250  58,300  7,874  6,529  7,874  6,662
58,300  58,350  7,885  6,535  7,885  6,668
58,350  58,400  7,896  6,541  7,896  6,674
58,400  58,450  7,907  6,547  7,907  6,680
58,450  58,500  7,918  6,553  7,918  6,686
58,500  58,550  7,929  6,559  7,929  6,692
58,550  58,600  7,940  6,565  7,940  6,698
58,600  58,650  7,951  6,571  7,951  6,704
58,650  58,700  7,962  6,577  7,962  6,710
58,700  58,750  7,973  6,583  7,973  6,716
58,750  58,800  7,984  6,589  7,984  6,722
58,800  58,850  7,995  6,595  7,995  6,728
58,850  58,900  8,006  6,601  8,006  6,734
58,900  58,950  8,017  6,607  8,017  6,740
58,950  59,000  8,028  6,613  8,028  6,746
59,000
59,000  59,050  8,039  6,619  8,039  6,752
59,050  59,100  8,050  6,625  8,050  6,758
59,100  59,150  8,061  6,631  8,061  6,764
59,150  59,200  8,072  6,637  8,072  6,770
59,200  59,250  8,083  6,643  8,083  6,776
59,250  59,300  8,094  6,649  8,094  6,782
59,300  59,350  8,105  6,655  8,105  6,788
59,350  59,400  8,116  6,661  8,116  6,794
59,400  59,450  8,127  6,667  8,127  6,800
59,450  59,500  8,138  6,673  8,138  6,806
59,500  59,550  8,149  6,679  8,149  6,812
59,550  59,600  8,160  6,685  8,160  6,818
59,600  59,650  8,171  6,691  8,171  6,824
59,650  59,700  8,182  6,697  8,182  6,830
59,700  59,750  8,193  6,703  8,193  6,836
59,750  59,800  8,204  6,709  8,204  6,842
59,800  59,850  8,215  6,715  8,215  6,848
59,850  59,900  8,226  6,721  8,226  6,854
59,900  59,950  8,237  6,727  8,237  6,860
59,950  60,000  8,248  6,733  8,248  6,866
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
60,000
60,000  60,050  8,259  6,739  8,259  6,872
60,050  60,100  8,270  6,745  8,270  6,878
60,100  60,150  8,281  6,751  8,281  6,884
60,150  60,200  8,292  6,757  8,292  6,890
60,200  60,250  8,303  6,763  8,303  6,896
60,250  60,300  8,314  6,769  8,314  6,902
60,300  60,350  8,325  6,775  8,325  6,908
60,350  60,400  8,336  6,781  8,336  6,914
60,400  60,450  8,347  6,787  8,347  6,920
60,450  60,500  8,358  6,793  8,358  6,926
60,500  60,550  8,369  6,799  8,369  6,932
60,550  60,600  8,380  6,805  8,380  6,938
60,600  60,650  8,391  6,811  8,391  6,944
60,650  60,700  8,402  6,817  8,402  6,950
60,700  60,750  8,413  6,823  8,413  6,956
60,750  60,800  8,424  6,829  8,424  6,962
60,800  60,850  8,435  6,835  8,435  6,968
60,850  60,900  8,446  6,841  8,446  6,974
60,900  60,950  8,457  6,847  8,457  6,980
60,950  61,000  8,468  6,853  8,468  6,986
61,000
61,000  61,050  8,479  6,859  8,479  6,992
61,050  61,100  8,490  6,865  8,490  6,998
61,100  61,150  8,501  6,871  8,501  7,004
61,150  61,200  8,512  6,877  8,512  7,010
61,200  61,250  8,523  6,883  8,523  7,016
61,250  61,300  8,534  6,889  8,534  7,022
61,300  61,350  8,545  6,895  8,545  7,028
61,350  61,400  8,556  6,901  8,556  7,034
61,400  61,450  8,567  6,907  8,567  7,040
61,450  61,500  8,578  6,913  8,578  7,046
61,500  61,550  8,589  6,919  8,589  7,052
61,550  61,600  8,600  6,925  8,600  7,058
61,600  61,650  8,611  6,931  8,611  7,064
61,650  61,700  8,622  6,937  8,622  7,070
61,700  61,750  8,633  6,943  8,633  7,076
61,750  61,800  8,644  6,949  8,644  7,082
61,800  61,850  8,655  6,955  8,655  7,088
61,850  61,900  8,666  6,961  8,666  7,094
61,900  61,950  8,677  6,967  8,677  7,100
61,950  62,000  8,688  6,973  8,688  7,106
62,000
62,000  62,050  8,699  6,979  8,699  7,112
62,050  62,100  8,710  6,985  8,710  7,118
62,100  62,150  8,721  6,991  8,721  7,124
62,150  62,200  8,732  6,997  8,732  7,130
62,200  62,250  8,743  7,003  8,743  7,136
62,250  62,300  8,754  7,009  8,754  7,142
62,300  62,350  8,765  7,015  8,765  7,148
62,350  62,400  8,776  7,021  8,776  7,154
62,400  62,450  8,787  7,027  8,787  7,160
62,450  62,500  8,798  7,033  8,798  7,166
62,500  62,550  8,809  7,039  8,809  7,172
62,550  62,600  8,820  7,045  8,820  7,178
62,600  62,650  8,831  7,051  8,831  7,184
62,650  62,700  8,842  7,057  8,842  7,190
62,700  62,750  8,853  7,063  8,853  7,196
62,750  62,800  8,864  7,069  8,864  7,202
62,800  62,850  8,875  7,075  8,875  7,208
62,850  62,900  8,886  7,081  8,886  7,214
62,900  62,950  8,897  7,087  8,897  7,220
62,950  63,000  8,908  7,093  8,908  7,226
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
63,000
63,000  63,050  8,919  7,099  8,919  7,232
63,050  63,100  8,930  7,105  8,930  7,238
63,100  63,150  8,941  7,111  8,941  7,247
63,150  63,200  8,952  7,117  8,952  7,258
63,200  63,250  8,963  7,123  8,963  7,269
63,250  63,300  8,974  7,129  8,974  7,280
63,300  63,350  8,985  7,135  8,985  7,291
63,350  63,400  8,996  7,141  8,996  7,302
63,400  63,450  9,007  7,147  9,007  7,313
63,450  63,500  9,018  7,153  9,018  7,324
63,500  63,550  9,029  7,159  9,029  7,335
63,550  63,600  9,040  7,165  9,040  7,346
63,600  63,650  9,051  7,171  9,051  7,357
63,650  63,700  9,062  7,177  9,062  7,368
63,700  63,750  9,073  7,183  9,073  7,379
63,750  63,800  9,084  7,189  9,084  7,390
63,800  63,850  9,095  7,195  9,095  7,401
63,850  63,900  9,106  7,201  9,106  7,412
63,900  63,950  9,117  7,207  9,117  7,423
63,950  64,000  9,128  7,213  9,128  7,434
64,000
64,000  64,050  9,139  7,219  9,139  7,445
64,050  64,100  9,150  7,225  9,150  7,456
64,100  64,150  9,161  7,231  9,161  7,467
64,150  64,200  9,172  7,237  9,172  7,478
64,200  64,250  9,183  7,243  9,183  7,489
64,250  64,300  9,194  7,249  9,194  7,500
64,300  64,350  9,205  7,255  9,205  7,511
64,350  64,400  9,216  7,261  9,216  7,522
64,400  64,450  9,227  7,267  9,227  7,533
64,450  64,500  9,238  7,273  9,238  7,544
64,500  64,550  9,249  7,279  9,249  7,555
64,550  64,600  9,260  7,285  9,260  7,566
64,600  64,650  9,271  7,291  9,271  7,577
64,650  64,700  9,282  7,297  9,282  7,588
64,700  64,750  9,293  7,303  9,293  7,599
64,750  64,800  9,304  7,309  9,304  7,610
64,800  64,850  9,315  7,315  9,315  7,621
64,850  64,900  9,326  7,321  9,326  7,632
64,900  64,950  9,337  7,327  9,337  7,643
64,950  65,000  9,348  7,333  9,348  7,654
65,000
65,000  65,050  9,359  7,339  9,359  7,665
65,050  65,100  9,370  7,345  9,370  7,676
65,100  65,150  9,381  7,351  9,381  7,687
65,150  65,200  9,392  7,357  9,392  7,698
65,200  65,250  9,403  7,363  9,403  7,709
65,250  65,300  9,414  7,369  9,414  7,720
65,300  65,350  9,425  7,375  9,425  7,731
65,350  65,400  9,436  7,381  9,436  7,742
65,400  65,450  9,447  7,387  9,447  7,753
65,450  65,500  9,458  7,393  9,458  7,764
65,500  65,550  9,469  7,399  9,469  7,775
65,550  65,600  9,480  7,405  9,480  7,786
65,600  65,650  9,491  7,411  9,491  7,797
65,650  65,700  9,502  7,417  9,502  7,808
65,700  65,750  9,513  7,423  9,513  7,819
65,750  65,800  9,524  7,429  9,524  7,830
65,800  65,850  9,535  7,435  9,535  7,841
65,850  65,900  9,546  7,441  9,546  7,852
65,900  65,950  9,557  7,447  9,557  7,863
65,950  66,000  9,568  7,453  9,568  7,874
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  71

=== PAGE 72 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
66,000
66,000  66,050  9,579  7,459  9,579  7,885
66,050  66,100  9,590  7,465  9,590  7,896
66,100  66,150  9,601  7,471  9,601  7,907
66,150  66,200  9,612  7,477  9,612  7,918
66,200  66,250  9,623  7,483  9,623  7,929
66,250  66,300  9,634  7,489  9,634  7,940
66,300  66,350  9,645  7,495  9,645  7,951
66,350  66,400  9,656  7,501  9,656  7,962
66,400  66,450  9,667  7,507  9,667  7,973
66,450  66,500  9,678  7,513  9,678  7,984
66,500  66,550  9,689  7,519  9,689  7,995
66,550  66,600  9,700  7,525  9,700  8,006
66,600  66,650  9,711  7,531  9,711  8,017
66,650  66,700  9,722  7,537  9,722  8,028
66,700  66,750  9,733  7,543  9,733  8,039
66,750  66,800  9,744  7,549  9,744  8,050
66,800  66,850  9,755  7,555  9,755  8,061
66,850  66,900  9,766  7,561  9,766  8,072
66,900  66,950  9,777  7,567  9,777  8,083
66,950  67,000  9,788  7,573  9,788  8,094
67,000
67,000  67,050  9,799  7,579  9,799  8,105
67,050  67,100  9,810  7,585  9,810  8,116
67,100  67,150  9,821  7,591  9,821  8,127
67,150  67,200  9,832  7,597  9,832  8,138
67,200  67,250  9,843  7,603  9,843  8,149
67,250  67,300  9,854  7,609  9,854  8,160
67,300  67,350  9,865  7,615  9,865  8,171
67,350  67,400  9,876  7,621  9,876  8,182
67,400  67,450  9,887  7,627  9,887  8,193
67,450  67,500  9,898  7,633  9,898  8,204
67,500  67,550  9,909  7,639  9,909  8,215
67,550  67,600  9,920  7,645  9,920  8,226
67,600  67,650  9,931  7,651  9,931  8,237
67,650  67,700  9,942  7,657  9,942  8,248
67,700  67,750  9,953  7,663  9,953  8,259
67,750  67,800  9,964  7,669  9,964  8,270
67,800  67,850  9,975  7,675  9,975  8,281
67,850  67,900  9,986  7,681  9,986  8,292
67,900  67,950  9,997  7,687  9,997  8,303
67,950  68,000  10,008  7,693  10,008  8,314
68,000
68,000  68,050  10,019  7,699  10,019  8,325
68,050  68,100  10,030  7,705  10,030  8,336
68,100  68,150  10,041  7,711  10,041  8,347
68,150  68,200  10,052  7,717  10,052  8,358
68,200  68,250  10,063  7,723  10,063  8,369
68,250  68,300  10,074  7,729  10,074  8,380
68,300  68,350  10,085  7,735  10,085  8,391
68,350  68,400  10,096  7,741  10,096  8,402
68,400  68,450  10,107  7,747  10,107  8,413
68,450  68,500  10,118  7,753  10,118  8,424
68,500  68,550  10,129  7,759  10,129  8,435
68,550  68,600  10,140  7,765  10,140  8,446
68,600  68,650  10,151  7,771  10,151  8,457
68,650  68,700  10,162  7,777  10,162  8,468
68,700  68,750  10,173  7,783  10,173  8,479
68,750  68,800  10,184  7,789  10,184  8,490
68,800  68,850  10,195  7,795  10,195  8,501
68,850  68,900  10,206  7,801  10,206  8,512
68,900  68,950  10,217  7,807  10,217  8,523
68,950  69,000  10,228  7,813  10,228  8,534
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
69,000
69,000  69,050  10,239  7,819  10,239  8,545
69,050  69,100  10,250  7,825  10,250  8,556
69,100  69,150  10,261  7,831  10,261  8,567
69,150  69,200  10,272  7,837  10,272  8,578
69,200  69,250  10,283  7,843  10,283  8,589
69,250  69,300  10,294  7,849  10,294  8,600
69,300  69,350  10,305  7,855  10,305  8,611
69,350  69,400  10,316  7,861  10,316  8,622
69,400  69,450  10,327  7,867  10,327  8,633
69,450  69,500  10,338  7,873  10,338  8,644
69,500  69,550  10,349  7,879  10,349  8,655
69,550  69,600  10,360  7,885  10,360  8,666
69,600  69,650  10,371  7,891  10,371  8,677
69,650  69,700  10,382  7,897  10,382  8,688
69,700  69,750  10,393  7,903  10,393  8,699
69,750  69,800  10,404  7,909  10,404  8,710
69,800  69,850  10,415  7,915  10,415  8,721
69,850  69,900  10,426  7,921  10,426  8,732
69,900  69,950  10,437  7,927  10,437  8,743
69,950  70,000  10,448  7,933  10,448  8,754
70,000
70,000  70,050  10,459  7,939  10,459  8,765
70,050  70,100  10,470  7,945  10,470  8,776
70,100  70,150  10,481  7,951  10,481  8,787
70,150  70,200  10,492  7,957  10,492  8,798
70,200  70,250  10,503  7,963  10,503  8,809
70,250  70,300  10,514  7,969  10,514  8,820
70,300  70,350  10,525  7,975  10,525  8,831
70,350  70,400  10,536  7,981  10,536  8,842
70,400  70,450  10,547  7,987  10,547  8,853
70,450  70,500  10,558  7,993  10,558  8,864
70,500  70,550  10,569  7,999  10,569  8,875
70,550  70,600  10,580  8,005  10,580  8,886
70,600  70,650  10,591  8,011  10,591  8,897
70,650  70,700  10,602  8,017  10,602  8,908
70,700  70,750  10,613  8,023  10,613  8,919
70,750  70,800  10,624  8,029  10,624  8,930
70,800  70,850  10,635  8,035  10,635  8,941
70,850  70,900  10,646  8,041  10,646  8,952
70,900  70,950  10,657  8,047  10,657  8,963
70,950  71,000  10,668  8,053  10,668  8,974
71,000
71,000  71,050  10,679  8,059  10,679  8,985
71,050  71,100  10,690  8,065  10,690  8,996
71,100  71,150  10,701  8,071  10,701  9,007
71,150  71,200  10,712  8,077  10,712  9,018
71,200  71,250  10,723  8,083  10,723  9,029
71,250  71,300  10,734  8,089  10,734  9,040
71,300  71,350  10,745  8,095  10,745  9,051
71,350  71,400  10,756  8,101  10,756  9,062
71,400  71,450  10,767  8,107  10,767  9,073
71,450  71,500  10,778  8,113  10,778  9,084
71,500  71,550  10,789  8,119  10,789  9,095
71,550  71,600  10,800  8,125  10,800  9,106
71,600  71,650  10,811  8,131  10,811  9,117
71,650  71,700  10,822  8,137  10,822  9,128
71,700  71,750  10,833  8,143  10,833  9,139
71,750  71,800  10,844  8,149  10,844  9,150
71,800  71,850  10,855  8,155  10,855  9,161
71,850  71,900  10,866  8,161  10,866  9,172
71,900  71,950  10,877  8,167  10,877  9,183
71,950  72,000  10,888  8,173  10,888  9,194
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
72,000
72,000  72,050  10,899  8,179  10,899  9,205
72,050  72,100  10,910  8,185  10,910  9,216
72,100  72,150  10,921  8,191  10,921  9,227
72,150  72,200  10,932  8,197  10,932  9,238
72,200  72,250  10,943  8,203  10,943  9,249
72,250  72,300  10,954  8,209  10,954  9,260
72,300  72,350  10,965  8,215  10,965  9,271
72,350  72,400  10,976  8,221  10,976  9,282
72,400  72,450  10,987  8,227  10,987  9,293
72,450  72,500  10,998  8,233  10,998  9,304
72,500  72,550  11,009  8,239  11,009  9,315
72,550  72,600  11,020  8,245  11,020  9,326
72,600  72,650  11,031  8,251  11,031  9,337
72,650  72,700  11,042  8,257  11,042  9,348
72,700  72,750  11,053  8,263  11,053  9,359
72,750  72,800  11,064  8,269  11,064  9,370
72,800  72,850  11,075  8,275  11,075  9,381
72,850  72,900  11,086  8,281  11,086  9,392
72,900  72,950  11,097  8,287  11,097  9,403
72,950  73,000  11,108  8,293  11,108  9,414
73,000
73,000  73,050  11,119  8,299  11,119  9,425
73,050  73,100  11,130  8,305  11,130  9,436
73,100  73,150  11,141  8,311  11,141  9,447
73,150  73,200  11,152  8,317  11,152  9,458
73,200  73,250  11,163  8,323  11,163  9,469
73,250  73,300  11,174  8,329  11,174  9,480
73,300  73,350  11,185  8,335  11,185  9,491
73,350  73,400  11,196  8,341  11,196  9,502
73,400  73,450  11,207  8,347  11,207  9,513
73,450  73,500  11,218  8,353  11,218  9,524
73,500  73,550  11,229  8,359  11,229  9,535
73,550  73,600  11,240  8,365  11,240  9,546
73,600  73,650  11,251  8,371  11,251  9,557
73,650  73,700  11,262  8,377  11,262  9,568
73,700  73,750  11,273  8,383  11,273  9,579
73,750  73,800  11,284  8,389  11,284  9,590
73,800  73,850  11,295  8,395  11,295  9,601
73,850  73,900  11,306  8,401  11,306  9,612
73,900  73,950  11,317  8,407  11,317  9,623
73,950  74,000  11,328  8,413  11,328  9,634
74,000
74,000  74,050  11,339  8,419  11,339  9,645
74,050  74,100  11,350  8,425  11,350  9,656
74,100  74,150  11,361  8,431  11,361  9,667
74,150  74,200  11,372  8,437  11,372  9,678
74,200  74,250  11,383  8,443  11,383  9,689
74,250  74,300  11,394  8,449  11,394  9,700
74,300  74,350  11,405  8,455  11,405  9,711
74,350  74,400  11,416  8,461  11,416  9,722
74,400  74,450  11,427  8,467  11,427  9,733
74,450  74,500  11,438  8,473  11,438  9,744
74,500  74,550  11,449  8,479  11,449  9,755
74,550  74,600  11,460  8,485  11,460  9,766
74,600  74,650  11,471  8,491  11,471  9,777
74,650  74,700  11,482  8,497  11,482  9,788
74,700  74,750  11,493  8,503  11,493  9,799
74,750  74,800  11,504  8,509  11,504  9,810
74,800  74,850  11,515  8,515  11,515  9,821
74,850  74,900  11,526  8,521  11,526  9,832
74,900  74,950  11,537  8,527  11,537  9,843
74,950  75,000  11,548  8,533  11,548  9,854
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
72  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 73 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
75,000
75,000  75,050  11,559  8,539  11,559  9,865
75,050  75,100  11,570  8,545  11,570  9,876
75,100  75,150  11,581  8,551  11,581  9,887
75,150  75,200  11,592  8,557  11,592  9,898
75,200  75,250  11,603  8,563  11,603  9,909
75,250  75,300  11,614  8,569  11,614  9,920
75,300  75,350  11,625  8,575  11,625  9,931
75,350  75,400  11,636  8,581  11,636  9,942
75,400  75,450  11,647  8,587  11,647  9,953
75,450  75,500  11,658  8,593  11,658  9,964
75,500  75,550  11,669  8,599  11,669  9,975
75,550  75,600  11,680  8,605  11,680  9,986
75,600  75,650  11,691  8,611  11,691  9,997
75,650  75,700  11,702  8,617  11,702  10,008
75,700  75,750  11,713  8,623  11,713  10,019
75,750  75,800  11,724  8,629  11,724  10,030
75,800  75,850  11,735  8,635  11,735  10,041
75,850  75,900  11,746  8,641  11,746  10,052
75,900  75,950  11,757  8,647  11,757  10,063
75,950  76,000  11,768  8,653  11,768  10,074
76,000
76,000  76,050  11,779  8,659  11,779  10,085
76,050  76,100  11,790  8,665  11,790  10,096
76,100  76,150  11,801  8,671  11,801  10,107
76,150  76,200  11,812  8,677  11,812  10,118
76,200  76,250  11,823  8,683  11,823  10,129
76,250  76,300  11,834  8,689  11,834  10,140
76,300  76,350  11,845  8,695  11,845  10,151
76,350  76,400  11,856  8,701  11,856  10,162
76,400  76,450  11,867  8,707  11,867  10,173
76,450  76,500  11,878  8,713  11,878  10,184
76,500  76,550  11,889  8,719  11,889  10,195
76,550  76,600  11,900  8,725  11,900  10,206
76,600  76,650  11,911  8,731  11,911  10,217
76,650  76,700  11,922  8,737  11,922  10,228
76,700  76,750  11,933  8,743  11,933  10,239
76,750  76,800  11,944  8,749  11,944  10,250
76,800  76,850  11,955  8,755  11,955  10,261
76,850  76,900  11,966  8,761  11,966  10,272
76,900  76,950  11,977  8,767  11,977  10,283
76,950  77,000  11,988  8,773  11,988  10,294
77,000
77,000  77,050  11,999  8,779  11,999  10,305
77,050  77,100  12,010  8,785  12,010  10,316
77,100  77,150  12,021  8,791  12,021  10,327
77,150  77,200  12,032  8,797  12,032  10,338
77,200  77,250  12,043  8,803  12,043  10,349
77,250  77,300  12,054  8,809  12,054  10,360
77,300  77,350  12,065  8,815  12,065  10,371
77,350  77,400  12,076  8,821  12,076  10,382
77,400  77,450  12,087  8,827  12,087  10,393
77,450  77,500  12,098  8,833  12,098  10,404
77,500  77,550  12,109  8,839  12,109  10,415
77,550  77,600  12,120  8,845  12,120  10,426
77,600  77,650  12,131  8,851  12,131  10,437
77,650  77,700  12,142  8,857  12,142  10,448
77,700  77,750  12,153  8,863  12,153  10,459
77,750  77,800  12,164  8,869  12,164  10,470
77,800  77,850  12,175  8,875  12,175  10,481
77,850  77,900  12,186  8,881  12,186  10,492
77,900  77,950  12,197  8,887  12,197  10,503
77,950  78,000  12,208  8,893  12,208  10,514
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
78,000
78,000  78,050  12,219  8,899  12,219  10,525
78,050  78,100  12,230  8,905  12,230  10,536
78,100  78,150  12,241  8,911  12,241  10,547
78,150  78,200  12,252  8,917  12,252  10,558
78,200  78,250  12,263  8,923  12,263  10,569
78,250  78,300  12,274  8,929  12,274  10,580
78,300  78,350  12,285  8,935  12,285  10,591
78,350  78,400  12,296  8,941  12,296  10,602
78,400  78,450  12,307  8,947  12,307  10,613
78,450  78,500  12,318  8,953  12,318  10,624
78,500  78,550  12,329  8,959  12,329  10,635
78,550  78,600  12,340  8,965  12,340  10,646
78,600  78,650  12,351  8,971  12,351  10,657
78,650  78,700  12,362  8,977  12,362  10,668
78,700  78,750  12,373  8,983  12,373  10,679
78,750  78,800  12,384  8,989  12,384  10,690
78,800  78,850  12,395  8,995  12,395  10,701
78,850  78,900  12,406  9,001  12,406  10,712
78,900  78,950  12,417  9,007  12,417  10,723
78,950  79,000  12,428  9,013  12,428  10,734
79,000
79,000  79,050  12,439  9,019  12,439  10,745
79,050  79,100  12,450  9,025  12,450  10,756
79,100  79,150  12,461  9,031  12,461  10,767
79,150  79,200  12,472  9,037  12,472  10,778
79,200  79,250  12,483  9,043  12,483  10,789
79,250  79,300  12,494  9,049  12,494  10,800
79,300  79,350  12,505  9,055  12,505  10,811
79,350  79,400  12,516  9,061  12,516  10,822
79,400  79,450  12,527  9,067  12,527  10,833
79,450  79,500  12,538  9,073  12,538  10,844
79,500  79,550  12,549  9,079  12,549  10,855
79,550  79,600  12,560  9,085  12,560  10,866
79,600  79,650  12,571  9,091  12,571  10,877
79,650  79,700  12,582  9,097  12,582  10,888
79,700  79,750  12,593  9,103  12,593  10,899
79,750  79,800  12,604  9,109  12,604  10,910
79,800  79,850  12,615  9,115  12,615  10,921
79,850  79,900  12,626  9,121  12,626  10,932
79,900  79,950  12,637  9,127  12,637  10,943
79,950  80,000  12,648  9,133  12,648  10,954
80,000
80,000  80,050  12,659  9,139  12,659  10,965
80,050  80,100  12,670  9,145  12,670  10,976
80,100  80,150  12,681  9,151  12,681  10,987
80,150  80,200  12,692  9,157  12,692  10,998
80,200  80,250  12,703  9,163  12,703  11,009
80,250  80,300  12,714  9,169  12,714  11,020
80,300  80,350  12,725  9,175  12,725  11,031
80,350  80,400  12,736  9,181  12,736  11,042
80,400  80,450  12,747  9,187  12,747  11,053
80,450  80,500  12,758  9,193  12,758  11,064
80,500  80,550  12,769  9,199  12,769  11,075
80,550  80,600  12,780  9,205  12,780  11,086
80,600  80,650  12,791  9,211  12,791  11,097
80,650  80,700  12,802  9,217  12,802  11,108
80,700  80,750  12,813  9,223  12,813  11,119
80,750  80,800  12,824  9,229  12,824  11,130
80,800  80,850  12,835  9,235  12,835  11,141
80,850  80,900  12,846  9,241  12,846  11,152
80,900  80,950  12,857  9,247  12,857  11,163
80,950  81,000  12,868  9,253  12,868  11,174
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
81,000
81,000  81,050  12,879  9,259  12,879  11,185
81,050  81,100  12,890  9,265  12,890  11,196
81,100  81,150  12,901  9,271  12,901  11,207
81,150  81,200  12,912  9,277  12,912  11,218
81,200  81,250  12,923  9,283  12,923  11,229
81,250  81,300  12,934  9,289  12,934  11,240
81,300  81,350  12,945  9,295  12,945  11,251
81,350  81,400  12,956  9,301  12,956  11,262
81,400  81,450  12,967  9,307  12,967  11,273
81,450  81,500  12,978  9,313  12,978  11,284
81,500  81,550  12,989  9,319  12,989  11,295
81,550  81,600  13,000  9,325  13,000  11,306
81,600  81,650  13,011  9,331  13,011  11,317
81,650  81,700  13,022  9,337  13,022  11,328
81,700  81,750  13,033  9,343  13,033  11,339
81,750  81,800  13,044  9,349  13,044  11,350
81,800  81,850  13,055  9,355  13,055  11,361
81,850  81,900  13,066  9,361  13,066  11,372
81,900  81,950  13,077  9,367  13,077  11,383
81,950  82,000  13,088  9,373  13,088  11,394
82,000
82,000  82,050  13,099  9,379  13,099  11,405
82,050  82,100  13,110  9,385  13,110  11,416
82,100  82,150  13,121  9,391  13,121  11,427
82,150  82,200  13,132  9,397  13,132  11,438
82,200  82,250  13,143  9,403  13,143  11,449
82,250  82,300  13,154  9,409  13,154  11,460
82,300  82,350  13,165  9,415  13,165  11,471
82,350  82,400  13,176  9,421  13,176  11,482
82,400  82,450  13,187  9,427  13,187  11,493
82,450  82,500  13,198  9,433  13,198  11,504
82,500  82,550  13,209  9,439  13,209  11,515
82,550  82,600  13,220  9,445  13,220  11,526
82,600  82,650  13,231  9,451  13,231  11,537
82,650  82,700  13,242  9,457  13,242  11,548
82,700  82,750  13,253  9,463  13,253  11,559
82,750  82,800  13,264  9,469  13,264  11,570
82,800  82,850  13,275  9,475  13,275  11,581
82,850  82,900  13,286  9,481  13,286  11,592
82,900  82,950  13,297  9,487  13,297  11,603
82,950  83,000  13,308  9,493  13,308  11,614
83,000
83,000  83,050  13,319  9,499  13,319  11,625
83,050  83,100  13,330  9,505  13,330  11,636
83,100  83,150  13,341  9,511  13,341  11,647
83,150  83,200  13,352  9,517  13,352  11,658
83,200  83,250  13,363  9,523  13,363  11,669
83,250  83,300  13,374  9,529  13,374  11,680
83,300  83,350  13,385  9,535  13,385  11,691
83,350  83,400  13,396  9,541  13,396  11,702
83,400  83,450  13,407  9,547  13,407  11,713
83,450  83,500  13,418  9,553  13,418  11,724
83,500  83,550  13,429  9,559  13,429  11,735
83,550  83,600  13,440  9,565  13,440  11,746
83,600  83,650  13,451  9,571  13,451  11,757
83,650  83,700  13,462  9,577  13,462  11,768
83,700  83,750  13,473  9,583  13,473  11,779
83,750  83,800  13,484  9,589  13,484  11,790
83,800  83,850  13,495  9,595  13,495  11,801
83,850  83,900  13,506  9,601  13,506  11,812
83,900  83,950  13,517  9,607  13,517  11,823
83,950  84,000  13,528  9,613  13,528  11,834
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  73

=== PAGE 74 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
84,000
84,000  84,050  13,539  9,619  13,539  11,845
84,050  84,100  13,550  9,625  13,550  11,856
84,100  84,150  13,561  9,631  13,561  11,867
84,150  84,200  13,572  9,637  13,572  11,878
84,200  84,250  13,583  9,643  13,583  11,889
84,250  84,300  13,594  9,649  13,594  11,900
84,300  84,350  13,605  9,655  13,605  11,911
84,350  84,400  13,616  9,661  13,616  11,922
84,400  84,450  13,627  9,667  13,627  11,933
84,450  84,500  13,638  9,673  13,638  11,944
84,500  84,550  13,649  9,679  13,649  11,955
84,550  84,600  13,660  9,685  13,660  11,966
84,600  84,650  13,671  9,691  13,671  11,977
84,650  84,700  13,682  9,697  13,682  11,988
84,700  84,750  13,693  9,703  13,693  11,999
84,750  84,800  13,704  9,709  13,704  12,010
84,800  84,850  13,715  9,715  13,715  12,021
84,850  84,900  13,726  9,721  13,726  12,032
84,900  84,950  13,737  9,727  13,737  12,043
84,950  85,000  13,748  9,733  13,748  12,054
85,000
85,000  85,050  13,759  9,739  13,759  12,065
85,050  85,100  13,770  9,745  13,770  12,076
85,100  85,150  13,781  9,751  13,781  12,087
85,150  85,200  13,792  9,757  13,792  12,098
85,200  85,250  13,803  9,763  13,803  12,109
85,250  85,300  13,814  9,769  13,814  12,120
85,300  85,350  13,825  9,775  13,825  12,131
85,350  85,400  13,836  9,781  13,836  12,142
85,400  85,450  13,847  9,787  13,847  12,153
85,450  85,500  13,858  9,793  13,858  12,164
85,500  85,550  13,869  9,799  13,869  12,175
85,550  85,600  13,880  9,805  13,880  12,186
85,600  85,650  13,891  9,811  13,891  12,197
85,650  85,700  13,902  9,817  13,902  12,208
85,700  85,750  13,913  9,823  13,913  12,219
85,750  85,800  13,924  9,829  13,924  12,230
85,800  85,850  13,935  9,835  13,935  12,241
85,850  85,900  13,946  9,841  13,946  12,252
85,900  85,950  13,957  9,847  13,957  12,263
85,950  86,000  13,968  9,853  13,968  12,274
86,000
86,000  86,050  13,979  9,859  13,979  12,285
86,050  86,100  13,990  9,865  13,990  12,296
86,100  86,150  14,001  9,871  14,001  12,307
86,150  86,200  14,012  9,877  14,012  12,318
86,200  86,250  14,023  9,883  14,023  12,329
86,250  86,300  14,034  9,889  14,034  12,340
86,300  86,350  14,045  9,895  14,045  12,351
86,350  86,400  14,056  9,901  14,056  12,362
86,400  86,450  14,067  9,907  14,067  12,373
86,450  86,500  14,078  9,913  14,078  12,384
86,500  86,550  14,089  9,919  14,089  12,395
86,550  86,600  14,100  9,925  14,100  12,406
86,600  86,650  14,111  9,931  14,111  12,417
86,650  86,700  14,122  9,937  14,122  12,428
86,700  86,750  14,133  9,943  14,133  12,439
86,750  86,800  14,144  9,949  14,144  12,450
86,800  86,850  14,155  9,955  14,155  12,461
86,850  86,900  14,166  9,961  14,166  12,472
86,900  86,950  14,177  9,967  14,177  12,483
86,950  87,000  14,188  9,973  14,188  12,494
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
87,000
87,000  87,050  14,199  9,979  14,199  12,505
87,050  87,100  14,210  9,985  14,210  12,516
87,100  87,150  14,221  9,991  14,221  12,527
87,150  87,200  14,232  9,997  14,232  12,538
87,200  87,250  14,243  10,003  14,243  12,549
87,250  87,300  14,254  10,009  14,254  12,560
87,300  87,350  14,265  10,015  14,265  12,571
87,350  87,400  14,276  10,021  14,276  12,582
87,400  87,450  14,287  10,027  14,287  12,593
87,450  87,500  14,298  10,033  14,298  12,604
87,500  87,550  14,309  10,039  14,309  12,615
87,550  87,600  14,320  10,045  14,320  12,626
87,600  87,650  14,331  10,051  14,331  12,637
87,650  87,700  14,342  10,057  14,342  12,648
87,700  87,750  14,353  10,063  14,353  12,659
87,750  87,800  14,364  10,069  14,364  12,670
87,800  87,850  14,375  10,075  14,375  12,681
87,850  87,900  14,386  10,081  14,386  12,692
87,900  87,950  14,397  10,087  14,397  12,703
87,950  88,000  14,408  10,093  14,408  12,714
88,000
88,000  88,050  14,419  10,099  14,419  12,725
88,050  88,100  14,430  10,105  14,430  12,736
88,100  88,150  14,441  10,111  14,441  12,747
88,150  88,200  14,452  10,117  14,452  12,758
88,200  88,250  14,463  10,123  14,463  12,769
88,250  88,300  14,474  10,129  14,474  12,780
88,300  88,350  14,485  10,135  14,485  12,791
88,350  88,400  14,496  10,141  14,496  12,802
88,400  88,450  14,507  10,147  14,507  12,813
88,450  88,500  14,518  10,153  14,518  12,824
88,500  88,550  14,529  10,159  14,529  12,835
88,550  88,600  14,540  10,165  14,540  12,846
88,600  88,650  14,551  10,171  14,551  12,857
88,650  88,700  14,562  10,177  14,562  12,868
88,700  88,750  14,573  10,183  14,573  12,879
88,750  88,800  14,584  10,189  14,584  12,890
88,800  88,850  14,595  10,195  14,595  12,901
88,850  88,900  14,606  10,201  14,606  12,912
88,900  88,950  14,617  10,207  14,617  12,923
88,950  89,000  14,628  10,213  14,628  12,934
89,000
89,000  89,050  14,639  10,219  14,639  12,945
89,050  89,100  14,650  10,225  14,650  12,956
89,100  89,150  14,661  10,231  14,661  12,967
89,150  89,200  14,672  10,237  14,672  12,978
89,200  89,250  14,683  10,243  14,683  12,989
89,250  89,300  14,694  10,249  14,694  13,000
89,300  89,350  14,705  10,255  14,705  13,011
89,350  89,400  14,716  10,261  14,716  13,022
89,400  89,450  14,727  10,267  14,727  13,033
89,450  89,500  14,738  10,273  14,738  13,044
89,500  89,550  14,749  10,279  14,749  13,055
89,550  89,600  14,760  10,285  14,760  13,066
89,600  89,650  14,771  10,291  14,771  13,077
89,650  89,700  14,782  10,297  14,782  13,088
89,700  89,750  14,793  10,303  14,793  13,099
89,750  89,800  14,804  10,309  14,804  13,110
89,800  89,850  14,815  10,315  14,815  13,121
89,850  89,900  14,826  10,321  14,826  13,132
89,900  89,950  14,837  10,327  14,837  13,143
89,950  90,000  14,848  10,333  14,848  13,154
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
90,000
90,000  90,050  14,859  10,339  14,859  13,165
90,050  90,100  14,870  10,345  14,870  13,176
90,100  90,150  14,881  10,351  14,881  13,187
90,150  90,200  14,892  10,357  14,892  13,198
90,200  90,250  14,903  10,363  14,903  13,209
90,250  90,300  14,914  10,369  14,914  13,220
90,300  90,350  14,925  10,375  14,925  13,231
90,350  90,400  14,936  10,381  14,936  13,242
90,400  90,450  14,947  10,387  14,947  13,253
90,450  90,500  14,958  10,393  14,958  13,264
90,500  90,550  14,969  10,399  14,969  13,275
90,550  90,600  14,980  10,405  14,980  13,286
90,600  90,650  14,991  10,411  14,991  13,297
90,650  90,700  15,002  10,417  15,002  13,308
90,700  90,750  15,013  10,423  15,013  13,319
90,750  90,800  15,024  10,429  15,024  13,330
90,800  90,850  15,035  10,435  15,035  13,341
90,850  90,900  15,046  10,441  15,046  13,352
90,900  90,950  15,057  10,447  15,057  13,363
90,950  91,000  15,068  10,453  15,068  13,374
91,000
91,000  91,050  15,079  10,459  15,079  13,385
91,050  91,100  15,090  10,465  15,090  13,396
91,100  91,150  15,101  10,471  15,101  13,407
91,150  91,200  15,112  10,477  15,112  13,418
91,200  91,250  15,123  10,483  15,123  13,429
91,250  91,300  15,134  10,489  15,134  13,440
91,300  91,350  15,145  10,495  15,145  13,451
91,350  91,400  15,156  10,501  15,156  13,462
91,400  91,450  15,167  10,507  15,167  13,473
91,450  91,500  15,178  10,513  15,178  13,484
91,500  91,550  15,189  10,519  15,189  13,495
91,550  91,600  15,200  10,525  15,200  13,506
91,600  91,650  15,211  10,531  15,211  13,517
91,650  91,700  15,222  10,537  15,222  13,528
91,700  91,750  15,233  10,543  15,233  13,539
91,750  91,800  15,244  10,549  15,244  13,550
91,800  91,850  15,255  10,555  15,255  13,561
91,850  91,900  15,266  10,561  15,266  13,572
91,900  91,950  15,277  10,567  15,277  13,583
91,950  92,000  15,288  10,573  15,288  13,594
92,000
92,000  92,050  15,299  10,579  15,299  13,605
92,050  92,100  15,310  10,585  15,310  13,616
92,100  92,150  15,321  10,591  15,321  13,627
92,150  92,200  15,332  10,597  15,332  13,638
92,200  92,250  15,343  10,603  15,343  13,649
92,250  92,300  15,354  10,609  15,354  13,660
92,300  92,350  15,365  10,615  15,365  13,671
92,350  92,400  15,376  10,621  15,376  13,682
92,400  92,450  15,387  10,627  15,387  13,693
92,450  92,500  15,398  10,633  15,398  13,704
92,500  92,550  15,409  10,639  15,409  13,715
92,550  92,600  15,420  10,645  15,420  13,726
92,600  92,650  15,431  10,651  15,431  13,737
92,650  92,700  15,442  10,657  15,442  13,748
92,700  92,750  15,453  10,663  15,453  13,759
92,750  92,800  15,464  10,669  15,464  13,770
92,800  92,850  15,475  10,675  15,475  13,781
92,850  92,900  15,486  10,681  15,486  13,792
92,900  92,950  15,497  10,687  15,497  13,803
92,950  93,000  15,508  10,693  15,508  13,814
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
74  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 75 ===
2024 Tax Table —  Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
93,000
93,000  93,050  15,519  10,699  15,519  13,825
93,050  93,100  15,530  10,705  15,530  13,836
93,100  93,150  15,541  10,711  15,541  13,847
93,150  93,200  15,552  10,717  15,552  13,858
93,200  93,250  15,563  10,723  15,563  13,869
93,250  93,300  15,574  10,729  15,574  13,880
93,300  93,350  15,585  10,735  15,585  13,891
93,350  93,400  15,596  10,741  15,596  13,902
93,400  93,450  15,607  10,747  15,607  13,913
93,450  93,500  15,618  10,753  15,618  13,924
93,500  93,550  15,629  10,759  15,629  13,935
93,550  93,600  15,640  10,765  15,640  13,946
93,600  93,650  15,651  10,771  15,651  13,957
93,650  93,700  15,662  10,777  15,662  13,968
93,700  93,750  15,673  10,783  15,673  13,979
93,750  93,800  15,684  10,789  15,684  13,990
93,800  93,850  15,695  10,795  15,695  14,001
93,850  93,900  15,706  10,801  15,706  14,012
93,900  93,950  15,717  10,807  15,717  14,023
93,950  94,000  15,728  10,813  15,728  14,034
94,000
94,000  94,050  15,739  10,819  15,739  14,045
94,050  94,100  15,750  10,825  15,750  14,056
94,100  94,150  15,761  10,831  15,761  14,067
94,150  94,200  15,772  10,837  15,772  14,078
94,200  94,250  15,783  10,843  15,783  14,089
94,250  94,300  15,794  10,849  15,794  14,100
94,300  94,350  15,805  10,858  15,805  14,111
94,350  94,400  15,816  10,869  15,816  14,122
94,400  94,450  15,827  10,880  15,827  14,133
94,450  94,500  15,838  10,891  15,838  14,144
94,500  94,550  15,849  10,902  15,849  14,155
94,550  94,600  15,860  10,913  15,860  14,166
94,600  94,650  15,871  10,924  15,871  14,177
94,650  94,700  15,882  10,935  15,882  14,188
94,700  94,750  15,893  10,946  15,893  14,199
94,750  94,800  15,904  10,957  15,904  14,210
94,800  94,850  15,915  10,968  15,915  14,221
94,850  94,900  15,926  10,979  15,926  14,232
94,900  94,950  15,937  10,990  15,937  14,243
94,950  95,000  15,948  11,001  15,948  14,254
95,000
95,000  95,050  15,959  11,012  15,959  14,265
95,050  95,100  15,970  11,023  15,970  14,276
95,100  95,150  15,981  11,034  15,981  14,287
95,150  95,200  15,992  11,045  15,992  14,298
95,200  95,250  16,003  11,056  16,003  14,309
95,250  95,300  16,014  11,067  16,014  14,320
95,300  95,350  16,025  11,078  16,025  14,331
95,350  95,400  16,036  11,089  16,036  14,342
95,400  95,450  16,047  11,100  16,047  14,353
95,450  95,500  16,058  11,111  16,058  14,364
95,500  95,550  16,069  11,122  16,069  14,375
95,550  95,600  16,080  11,133  16,080  14,386
95,600  95,650  16,091  11,144  16,091  14,397
95,650  95,700  16,102  11,155  16,102  14,408
95,700  95,750  16,113  11,166  16,113  14,419
95,750  95,800  16,124  11,177  16,124  14,430
95,800  95,850  16,135  11,188  16,135  14,441
95,850  95,900  16,146  11,199  16,146  14,452
95,900  95,950  16,157  11,210  16,157  14,463
95,950  96,000  16,168  11,221  16,168  14,474
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
96,000
96,000  96,050  16,179  11,232  16,179  14,485
96,050  96,100  16,190  11,243  16,190  14,496
96,100  96,150  16,201  11,254  16,201  14,507
96,150  96,200  16,212  11,265  16,212  14,518
96,200  96,250  16,223  11,276  16,223  14,529
96,250  96,300  16,234  11,287  16,234  14,540
96,300  96,350  16,245  11,298  16,245  14,551
96,350  96,400  16,256  11,309  16,256  14,562
96,400  96,450  16,267  11,320  16,267  14,573
96,450  96,500  16,278  11,331  16,278  14,584
96,500  96,550  16,289  11,342  16,289  14,595
96,550  96,600  16,300  11,353  16,300  14,606
96,600  96,650  16,311  11,364  16,311  14,617
96,650  96,700  16,322  11,375  16,322  14,628
96,700  96,750  16,333  11,386  16,333  14,639
96,750  96,800  16,344  11,397  16,344  14,650
96,800  96,850  16,355  11,408  16,355  14,661
96,850  96,900  16,366  11,419  16,366  14,672
96,900  96,950  16,377  11,430  16,377  14,683
96,950  97,000  16,388  11,441  16,388  14,694
97,000
97,000  97,050  16,399  11,452  16,399  14,705
97,050  97,100  16,410  11,463  16,410  14,716
97,100  97,150  16,421  11,474  16,421  14,727
97,150  97,200  16,432  11,485  16,432  14,738
97,200  97,250  16,443  11,496  16,443  14,749
97,250  97,300  16,454  11,507  16,454  14,760
97,300  97,350  16,465  11,518  16,465  14,771
97,350  97,400  16,476  11,529  16,476  14,782
97,400  97,450  16,487  11,540  16,487  14,793
97,450  97,500  16,498  11,551  16,498  14,804
97,500  97,550  16,509  11,562  16,509  14,815
97,550  97,600  16,520  11,573  16,520  14,826
97,600  97,650  16,531  11,584  16,531  14,837
97,650  97,700  16,542  11,595  16,542  14,848
97,700  97,750  16,553  11,606  16,553  14,859
97,750  97,800  16,564  11,617  16,564  14,870
97,800  97,850  16,575  11,628  16,575  14,881
97,850  97,900  16,586  11,639  16,586  14,892
97,900  97,950  16,597  11,650  16,597  14,903
97,950  98,000  16,608  11,661  16,608  14,914
98,000
98,000  98,050  16,619  11,672  16,619  14,925
98,050  98,100  16,630  11,683  16,630  14,936
98,100  98,150  16,641  11,694  16,641  14,947
98,150  98,200  16,652  11,705  16,652  14,958
98,200  98,250  16,663  11,716  16,663  14,969
98,250  98,300  16,674  11,727  16,674  14,980
98,300  98,350  16,685  11,738  16,685  14,991
98,350  98,400  16,696  11,749  16,696  15,002
98,400  98,450  16,707  11,760  16,707  15,013
98,450  98,500  16,718  11,771  16,718  15,024
98,500  98,550  16,729  11,782  16,729  15,035
98,550  98,600  16,740  11,793  16,740  15,046
98,600  98,650  16,751  11,804  16,751  15,057
98,650  98,700  16,762  11,815  16,762  15,068
98,700  98,750  16,773  11,826  16,773  15,079
98,750  98,800  16,784  11,837  16,784  15,090
98,800  98,850  16,795  11,848  16,795  15,101
98,850  98,900  16,806  11,859  16,806  15,112
98,900  98,950  16,817  11,870  16,817  15,123
98,950  99,000  16,828  11,881  16,828  15,134
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single  M a r r i e d
filing
jointly *
M a r r i e d
filing
sepa -
rately
Head of
a
house -
hold
Your tax is—
99,000
99,000  99,050  16,839  11,892  16,839  15,145
99,050  99,100  16,850  11,903  16,850  15,156
99,100  99,150  16,861  11,914  16,861  15,167
99,150  99,200  16,872  11,925  16,872  15,178
99,200  99,250  16,883  11,936  16,883  15,189
99,250  99,300  16,894  11,947  16,894  15,200
99,300  99,350  16,905  11,958  16,905  15,211
99,350  99,400  16,916  11,969  16,916  15,222
99,400  99,450  16,927  11,980  16,927  15,233
99,450  99,500  16,938  11,991  16,938  15,244
99,500  99,550  16,949  12,002  16,949  15,255
99,550  99,600  16,960  12,013  16,960  15,266
99,600  99,650  16,971  12,024  16,971  15,277
99,650  99,700  16,982  12,035  16,982  15,288
99,700  99,750  16,993  12,046  16,993  15,299
99,750  99,800  17,004  12,057  17,004  15,310
99,800  99,850  17,015  12,068  17,015  15,321
99,850  99,900  17,026  12,079  17,026  15,332
99,900  99,950  17,037  12,090  17,037  15,343
99,950  100,000  17,048  12,101  17,048  15,354
$100,000
or over
use the Tax
Computation
Worksheet
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.  75

=== PAGE 76 ===
2024 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 16
CAUTION
!
See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.
Note.  If you are required to use this worksheet to figure the tax on an amount from another form or worksheet, such as the Qualified Dividends
and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet, the Schedule D Tax Worksheet, Schedule J, Form 8615, or the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet, enter
the amount from that form or worksheet in column (a) of the row that applies to the amount you are looking up. Enter the result on the
appropriate line of the form or worksheet that you are completing.
Section A— Use if your filing status is  Single.  Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
the result here and on the entry
space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,525  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $  4,947.00  $
Over $100,525 but not over $191,950  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $  6,957.50  $
Over $191,950 but not over $243,725  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 22,313.50  $
Over $243,725 but not over $609,350  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 29,625.25  $
Over $609,350  $  × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 41,812.25  $
Section B— Use if your filing status is  Married filing jointly  or  Qualifying surviving spouse.  Complete the row below
that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the
result here and on the entry
space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $201,050  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $  9,894.00  $
Over $201,050 but not over $383,900  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $ 13,915.00  $
Over $383,900 but not over $487,450  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 44,627.00  $
Over $487,450 but not over $731,200  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 59,250.50  $
Over $731,200  $  × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 73,874.50  $
Section C— Use if your filing status is  Married filing separately.  Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
the result here and on the entry
space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,525  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $  4,947.00  $
Over $100,525 but not over $191,950  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $  6,957.50  $
Over $191,950 but not over $243,725  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 22,313.50  $
Over $243,725 but not over $365,600  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 29,625.25  $
Over $365,600  $  × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 36,937.25  $
Section D— Use if your filing status is  Head of household.  Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
the result here and on the
entry space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,500  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $  6,641.00  $
Over $100,500 but not over $191,950  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $  8,651.00  $
Over $191,950 but not over $243,700  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 24,007.00  $
Over $243,700 but not over $609,350  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 31,318.00  $
Over $609,350  $  × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 43,505.00  $
76  Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

=== PAGE 77 ===
General
Information
The IRS Mission.  Provide America's taxpayers top-quality service by helping them
understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and
fairness to all.
Voter Registration
Do you need to check or update your
voter registration? Visit  Vote.gov  to con-
firm with your state election office.
How To Avoid Common
Mistakes
Mistakes can delay your refund or result
in notices being sent to you. One of the
best ways to file an accurate return is to
file electronically. Tax software does the
math for you and will help you avoid
mistakes. Direct File and Free File pro-
vide eligible taxpayers the ability to file
their taxes electronically for free. See
IRS.gov/DirectFile  and  IRS.gov/FreeFile
for details and to see if you are eligible.
•  File your return on a standard size
sheet of paper. Cutting the paper may
cause problems in processing your re-
turn.
•  Make sure you entered the correct
name and social security number (SSN)
for each dependent you claim in the  De-
pendents  section. Check that each de-
pendent's name and SSN agrees with the
dependent’s  social  security  card.  For
each child under age 17 who is a quali-
fying child for the child tax credit or
each dependent who qualifies you for
the credit for other dependents, make
sure you checked the appropriate box in
column (4) of the  Dependents  section.
•  Check your math, especially for
the child tax credit, earned income credit
(EIC), taxable social security benefits,
total  income,  itemized  deductions  or
standard deduction, taxable income, to-
tal tax, federal income tax withheld, and
refund or amount you owe.
•  Be sure you used the correct meth-
od to figure your tax. See the instruc-
tions for line 16.
•  Be sure to enter your SSN in the
space provided on page 1 of Form 1040
or 1040-SR. If you are married filing a
joint or separate return, also enter your
spouse's SSN. Be sure to enter your SSN
in the space next to your name. Check
that your name and SSN agree with your
social security card.
•  Make sure your name and address
are correct. Enter your (and your spou-
se's) name in the same order as shown
on your last return.
•  If you live in an apartment, be sure
to  include  your  apartment  number  in
your address.
•  If you are taking the standard de-
duction, see the instructions for line 12
to  be  sure  you  entered  the  correct
amount.
•  If you received capital gain distri-
butions  but  weren't  required  to  file
Schedule D, make sure you checked the
box on line 7.
•  If you are taking the EIC, be sure
you used the correct column of the EIC
Table for your filing status and the num-
ber of qualifying children you have who
have valid SSNs.
•  Remember to sign and date Form
1040 or 1040-SR and enter your occupa-
tion(s).
•  Attach your Form(s) W-2 and oth-
er required forms and schedules. Put all
forms and schedules in the proper order.
See  Assemble Your Return , earlier.
•  If you owe tax and are paying by
check or money order, be sure to include
all the required information on your pay-
ment. See the instructions for line 37 for
details.
•  Make sure to check  Where Do You
File?  before mailing your return. Over
the next several years, the IRS will be
reducing the number of paper tax return
processing sites. Because of this, you
may need to mail your return to a differ-
ent address than you have in the past.
•  Don’t file more than one original
return for the same year, even if you
haven't gotten your refund or haven't
heard from the IRS since you filed. Fil-
ing more than one original return for the
same year, or sending in more than one
copy of the same return (unless we ask
you to do so), could delay your refund.
•  Make sure that if you, your spouse
with whom you are filing a joint return,
or your dependent was enrolled in Mar-
ketplace  coverage,  and  advance  pay-
ments of the premium tax credit were
made for the coverage, that you attach
Form 8962. For tax years other than
2020, you may have to repay excess ad-
vance payments, even if someone else
enrolled you, your spouse, or your de-
pendent in the Marketplace coverage.
Excess advance payments may also have
to be repaid if you enrolled someone in
Marketplace coverage, you don't claim
that individual as a dependent, and no
one else claims that individual as a de-
pendent. See the instructions for Sched-
ule 2, line 1a, and the Instructions for
Form 8962. You or whoever enrolled
you should have received Form 1095-A
from the Marketplace with information
about who was covered and any advance
payments of the premium tax credit.
Innocent Spouse Relief
Generally, both you and your spouse are
each  responsible  for  paying  the  full
amount of tax, interest, and penalties on
your joint return. However, you may
qualify for relief from liability for tax on
a joint return if (a) there is an under-
statement of tax because your spouse
omitted income or claimed false deduc-
tions or credits; (b) you are divorced,
separated, or no longer living with your
spouse; or (c) given all the facts and cir-
cumstances, it wouldn't be fair to hold
you liable for the tax. You may also
qualify for relief if you were a married
resident of a community property state
but didn't file a joint return and are now
liable for an unpaid or understated tax.
File  Form  8857  to  request  relief.  In
some cases, Form 8857 may need to be
filed within 2 years of the date on which
the IRS first attempted to collect the tax
from you. Don’t file Form 8857 with
your Form 1040 or 1040-SR. For more
information,  see  Pub.  971  and  Form
8857,  or  you  can  call  the  Innocent
Spouse office toll free at 855-851-2009.
77

=== PAGE 78 ===
Income Tax Withholding
and Estimated Tax
Payments for 2025
You  can  use  the  Tax
Withholding Estimator  instead
of Pub. 505 or the worksheets
included with Form W-4 or W-4P to de-
termine whether you need to have your
withholding increased or decreased.
In general, you don’t have to make
estimated tax payments if you expect
that your 2025 Form 1040 or 1040-SR
will show a tax refund or a tax balance
due of less than $1,000. If your total es-
timated tax for 2025 is $1,000 or more,
see Form 1040-ES and Pub. 505 for a
worksheet you can use to see if you have
to make estimated tax payments. For
more details, see Pub. 505.
Secure Your Tax
Records From Identity
Theft
All taxpayers can now apply for
an Identity Protection PIN (IP
PIN).  Go  to  IRS.gov/
GetAnIPPIN  to  request  an  IP  PIN
through your online account, file Form
15227 if your AGI on your last filed re-
turn is less than $79,000 ($158,000 if
married filing jointly), or make an ap-
pointment to visit a Taxpayer Assistance
Center.
Identity theft occurs when someone
uses your personal information, such as
your  name,  social  security  number
(SSN), or other identifying information,
without  your  permission  to  commit
fraud or other crimes. An identity thief
may use your SSN to get a job or may
file a tax return using your SSN to re-
ceive a refund.
To reduce your risk:
•  Protect your SSN,
•  Ensure your employer is protecting
your SSN, and
•  Be careful when choosing a tax re-
turn preparer.
If your tax records are affected by
identity theft and you receive a notice
from the IRS, respond right away to the
name and phone number printed on the
IRS notice or letter. For more informa-
tion, see Pub. 5027.
TIP
TIP
If your SSN has been lost or stolen or
you suspect you are a victim of tax-rela-
ted  identity  theft,  visit  IRS.gov/
IdentityTheft  to  learn  what  steps  you
should take.
Victims of identity theft who are ex-
periencing economic harm or a systemic
problem, or are seeking help in resolv-
ing tax problems that haven't been re-
solved through normal channels, may be
eligible for Taxpayer Advocate Service
(TAS) assistance. You can reach TAS by
calling the National Taxpayer Advocate
helpline at 877-777-4778. People who
are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability and who have access to
TTY/TDD  equipment  can  call
800-829-4059. Deaf or hard-of-hearing
individuals  can  also  contact  the  IRS
through  Telecommunications  Relay
Services at  FCC.gov/TRS .
Protect  yourself  from  suspicious
emails, texts, and social media mes-
sages, phishing schemes, and phone
scams.  Phishing is the creation and use
of emails, texts, social media messages,
and websites designed to mimic legiti-
mate business communication and web-
sites. The most common form is sending
an email to a user falsely claiming to be
an established legitimate enterprise in an
attempt to scam the user into surrender-
ing private information that will be used
for identity theft.
The IRS doesn't initiate contact with
or request detailed personal information
from taxpayers via emails, texts, or so-
cial  media  messages.  Also,  the  IRS
doesn't ask taxpayers for the PIN num-
bers, passwords, or similar secret access
information for their credit card, bank,
or other financial accounts.
If you receive an unsolicited email
claiming to be from the IRS, forward the
message to  phishing@irs.gov . For more
information,  go  to  IRS.gov/Phishing .
You may also report misuse of the IRS
name, logo, forms, or other IRS property
to the Treasury Inspector General for
Tax  Administration  toll  free  at
800-366-4484.  People  who  are  deaf,
hard of hearing, or have a speech disa-
bility and who have access to TTY/TDD
equipment can call 800-877-8339. You
can report suspicious emails, texts, and
social media messages to the Federal
Trade  Commission  (FTC)  at  ftc.gov/
complaint .  You  can  contact  them  at
www.ftc.gov/idtheft  or  877-IDTHEFT
(877-438-4338). If you have been the
victim  of  identity  theft,  see
www.IdentityTheft.gov  and  Pub.  5027.
People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability and who have
access to TTY/TDD equipment can call
866-653-4261.
Visit  IRS.gov  and  enter  “identity
theft” in the search box to learn more
about identity theft and how to reduce
your risk.
You can report a phone scam to the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Ad-
ministration at  IRS Impersonation Scam
Reporting  or the FTC using the  FTC
Complaint Assistant  at FTC.gov. Add
“IRS Telephone Scam” in the notes.
How Do You Make a Gift
To Reduce Debt Held By
the Public?
If you wish to do so, go to  Pay.gov  and
make a contribution by credit card, debit
card, PayPal, checking account, or sav-
ings  account.  If  you  prefer,  you  can
make a check payable to the “Bureau of
the Fiscal Service” and send it to: Bu-
reau of the Fiscal Service, Attn: Depart-
ment G, P.O. Box 2188, Parkersburg,
WV 26106-2188. Or you can enclose
the check with your income tax return
when you file. In the memo section of
the check, make a note that it is a gift to
reduce the debt held by the public. Don’t
add your gift to any tax you may owe.
See the instructions for line 37 for de-
tails on how to pay any tax you owe. For
information on how to make this type of
gift  online,  go  to  TreasuryDirect.gov/
Help-Center/Public-Debt-FAQs/
#DebtFinance  and click on “How do
you make a contribution to reduce the
debt?”
You may be able to deduct this
gift on your 2025 tax return.
How Long Should
Records Be Kept?
Keep a copy of your tax return, work-
sheets you used, and records of all items
appearing on it (such as Forms W-2 and
1099) until the statute of limitations runs
out for that return. Usually, this is 3
years from the date the return was due or
filed or 2 years from the date the tax was
paid,  whichever  is  later.  You  should
TIP
78

=== PAGE 79 ===
keep some records longer. For example,
keep property records (including those
on your home) as long as they are nee-
ded to figure the basis of the original or
replacement property. For more details,
see chapter 1 of Pub. 17.
Amended Return
File Form 1040-X to change a return
you already filed. Generally, to timely
claim a refund on your amended return,
Form 1040-X must be filed within 3
years after the date the original return
was filed or within 2 years after the date
the tax was paid, whichever is later. But
you may have more time to file Form
1040-X if you live in a federally de-
clared disaster area or you are physically
or mentally unable to manage your fi-
nancial affairs. See Pub. 556 for details.
You can file Form 1040-X electroni-
cally with tax filing software to amend
Forms 1040 and 1040-SR. See  IRS.gov/
Filing/Amended-Return-Frequently-
Asked-Questions  for more information.
Use the  Where's My Amended Return
application on IRS.gov to track the sta-
tus of your amended return. It can take
up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed
it to show up in our system.
Need a Copy of Your Tax
Return Information?
Tax return transcripts are free and are
generally used to validate income and
tax filing status for mortgage applica-
tions, student and small business loan
applications, and during tax return prep-
aration. To get a free transcript:
•  Access  your  online  account  at
IRS.gov/Account ,
•  Visit  IRS.gov/Transcript ,
•  Use Form 4506-T or 4506T-EZ, or
•  Call us at 800-908-9946.
If you need a copy of your actual tax
return, use Form 4506. There is a fee for
each return requested. See Form 4506
for the current fee. If your main home,
principal place of business, or tax re-
cords are located in a federally declared
disaster area, this fee will be waived.
Past Due Returns
If you or someone you know needs to
file past due tax returns, go to  Filing
past due returns  or  IRS.gov/Individuals
for help in filing those returns. Send the
return to the address that applies to you
in the latest Form 1040 and 1040-SR in-
structions. For example, if you are filing
a 2021 return in 2025, use the address at
the end of these instructions. However,
if you got an IRS notice, mail the return
to the address in the notice.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue;
need help preparing your tax return; or
want  to  download  free  publications,
forms, or instructions, go to  IRS.gov  to
find resources that can help you right
away.
Preparing and filing your tax return.
After receiving all your wage and earn-
ings  statements  (Forms  W-2,  W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.);
unemployment compensation statements
(by mail or in a digital format) or other
government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and re-
tirement statements from banks and in-
vestment firms (Forms 1099), you have
several options to choose from to pre-
pare and file your tax return. You can
prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or
hire a tax professional to prepare your
return.
Free  options  for  tax  preparation.
Your options for preparing and filing
your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the fol-
lowing.
•  Direct File.  Direct File is a perma-
nent option to file individual federal tax
returns  online—for  free—directly  and
securely with the IRS. Direct File is an
option  for  taxpayers  in  participating
states who have relatively simple tax re-
turns reporting certain types of income
and claiming certain credits and deduc-
tions. While Direct File doesn't prepare
state returns, if you live in a participat-
ing state, Direct File guides you to a
state-supported tool you can use to pre-
pare and file your state tax return for
free. Go to  IRS.gov/DirectFile  for more
information, program updates, and fre-
quently asked questions.
•  Free File.  This program lets you
prepare and file your federal individual
income tax return for free using software
or Free File Fillable Forms. However,
state tax preparation may not be availa-
ble through Free File. Go to  IRS.gov/
FreeFile  to see if you qualify for free
online federal tax preparation, e-filing,
and direct deposit or payment options.
•  VITA.  The Volunteer Income Tax
Assistance (VITA) program offers free
tax help to people with low-to-moderate
incomes, persons with disabilities, and
limited-English-speaking taxpayers who
need help preparing their own tax re-
turns. Go to  IRS.gov/VITA , download the
free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887
for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.
•  TCE.  The Tax Counseling for the
Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax
help for all taxpayers, particularly those
who are 60 years of age and older. TCE
volunteers specialize in answering ques-
tions about pensions and retirement-rela-
ted  issues  unique  to  seniors.  Go  to
IRS.gov/TCE  or  download  the  free
IRS2Go app for information on free tax
return preparation.
•  MilTax.  Members  of  the  U.S.
Armed  Forces  and  qualified  veterans
may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered  by  the  Department  of  Defense
through Military OneSource. For more
information,  go  to  MilitaryOneSource
( MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax ).
Also,  the  IRS  offers  Free  Fillable
Forms, which can be completed online
and then e-filed regardless of income.
Using  online  tools  to  help  prepare
your return.  Go to  IRS.gov/Tools  for
the following.
•  IRS.gov/DirectFile  offers an Eligi-
bility Checker to help you determine if
Direct File is the right choice for your
tax filing needs.
•  The  Earned  Income  Tax  Credit
Assistant  ( IRS.gov/EITCAssistant ) deter-
mines if you’re eligible for the earned
income credit (EIC).
•  The  Online  EIN  Application
( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you get an employ-
er  identification  number  (EIN)  at  no
cost.
•  The  Tax  Withholding  Estimator
( IRS.gov/W4App ) makes it easier for you
to estimate the federal income tax you
want your employer to withhold from
your paycheck. This is tax withholding.
See how your withholding affects your
refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
•  The  First-Time Homebuyer Credit
Account Look-up  ( IRS.gov/HomeBuyer )
tool provides information on your repay-
ments and account balance.
•  The  Sales  Tax  Deduction
Calculator  ( IRS.gov/SalesTax )  figures
79

=== PAGE 80 ===
the amount you can claim if you itemize
deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax
questions.  On IRS.gov, you can
get  up-to-date  information  on
current events and changes in tax law.
•  IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to
help you get answers to some of the
most common tax questions.
•  IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax
Assistant, a tool that will ask you ques-
tions and, based on your input, provide
answers on a number of tax topics.
•  IRS.gov/Forms :  Find  forms,  in-
structions,  and  publications.  You  will
find  details  on  the  most  recent  tax
changes and interactive links to help you
find answers to your questions.
•  You may also be able to access tax
information in your e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax re-
turn?  There are various types of tax re-
turn  preparers,  including  enrolled
agents,  certified  public  accountants
(CPAs), accountants, and many others
who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare
your  tax  return,  choose  that  preparer
wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
•  Primarily responsible for the over-
all substantive accuracy of your return,
•  Required to sign the return, and
•  Required to include their preparer
tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer al-
ways signs the return, you're ul-
timately responsible for provid-
ing all the information required for the
preparer to accurately prepare your re-
turn and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to
prepare tax returns for others should
have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how
to choose a tax preparer, go to  Tips for
Choosing a Tax Preparer  on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Busi-
ness Services Online.  The Social Se-
curity Administration (SSA) offers on-
line  service  at  SSA.gov/employer  for
fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options
to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2,
Wage  and  Tax  Statement;  and  Form
W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax State-
ment.
CAUTION
!
Business tax account.  If you are a sole
proprietor, a partnership, or an S corpo-
ration, you can view your tax informa-
tion on record with the IRS and do more
with  a  business  tax  account.  Go  to
IRS.gov/businessaccount  for more infor-
mation.
IRS  social  media.  Go  to  IRS.gov/
SocialMedia  to see the various social
media tools the IRS uses to share the lat-
est information on tax changes, scam
alerts, initiatives, products, and services.
At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to
share  public  information  with  you.
Don’t  post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information
on social media sites. Always protect
your identity when using any social net-
working site.
The following IRS YouTube channels
provide  short,  informative  videos  on
various  tax-related  topics  in  English,
Spanish, and ASL.
•  Youtube.com/irsvideos .
•  Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua .
•  Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .
Online tax information in other lan-
guages.  You  can  find  information  on
IRS.gov/MyLanguage  if  English  isn’t
your native language.
Free  Over-the-Phone  Interpreter
(OPI) Service.  The IRS is committed to
serving taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI serv-
ices. The OPI Service is a federally fun-
ded program and is available at Taxpay-
er Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS
offices, and every VITA/TCE tax return
site. The OPI Service is accessible in
more than 350 languages.
Accessibility  Helpline  available  for
taxpayers with disabilities.  Taxpayers
who need information about accessibili-
ty services can call 833-690-0598. The
Accessibility Helpline can answer ques-
tions related to current and future acces-
sibility products and services available
in alternative media formats (for exam-
ple, braille, large print, audio, etc.). The
Accessibility Helpline does not have ac-
cess to your IRS account. For help with
tax law, refunds, or account-related is-
sues, go to  IRS.gov/LetUsHelp .
Alternative  media  preference.  Form
9000, Alternative Media Preference, or
Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to re-
ceive  certain  types  of  written  corre-
spondence in the following formats.
•  Standard Print.
•  Large Print.
•  Braille.
•  Audio (MP3).
•  Plain Text File (TXT).
•  Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters.  Go to  IRS.gov/DisasterRelief
to review the available disaster tax re-
lief.
Getting tax forms and publications.
Go to  IRS.gov/Forms  to view, download,
or print all the forms, instructions, and
publications you may need. Or, you can
go to  IRS.gov/OrderForms  to place an
order.
Mobile-friendly forms.  You'll need an
IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete
mobile-friendly forms that require signa-
tures. You'll have the option to submit
your form(s) online or download a copy
for mailing. You'll need scans of your
documents to support your submission.
Go to  IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms  for
more information.
Getting tax publications and instruc-
tions in eBook format.  Download and
view most tax publications and instruc-
tions  (including  the  Instructions  for
Form  1040)  on  mobile  devices  as
eBooks at  IRS.gov/eBooks .
IRS eBooks have been tested using
Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks
haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality
may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individu-
al  taxpayers  only).  Go  to  IRS.gov/
Account  to securely access information
about your federal tax account.
•  View the amount you owe and a
breakdown by tax year.
•  See payment plan details or apply
for a new payment plan.
•  Make a payment or view 5 years of
payment  history  and  any  pending  or
scheduled payments.
•  Access your tax records, including
key data from your most recent tax re-
turn, and transcripts.
•  View digital copies of select noti-
ces from the IRS.
•  Approve or reject authorization re-
quests from tax professionals.
•  View your address on file or man-
age your communication preferences.
80

=== PAGE 81 ===
Get a transcript of your return.  With
an online account, you can access a vari-
ety of information to help you during the
filing season. You can get a transcript,
review your most recently filed tax re-
turn, and get your adjusted gross in-
come. Create or access your online ac-
count at  IRS.gov/Account .
Tax Pro Account.  This tool lets your
tax professional submit an authorization
request to access your individual taxpay-
er IRS OLA. For more information, go
to  IRS.gov/TaxProAccount .
Using direct deposit.  The safest and
easiest way to receive a tax refund is to
e-file and choose direct deposit, which
securely  and  electronically  transfers
your refund directly into your financial
account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost,
stolen, destroyed, or returned undeliver-
able to the IRS. Eight in 10 taxpayers
use direct deposit to receive their re-
funds. If you don’t have a bank account,
go to  IRS.gov/DirectDeposit  for more
information on where to find a bank or
credit union that can open an account
online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-re-
lated identity theft issues.
•  Tax-related identity theft happens
when someone steals your personal in-
formation to commit tax fraud. Your tax-
es can be affected if your SSN is used to
file a fraudulent return or to claim a re-
fund or credit.
•  The  IRS  doesn’t  initiate  contact
with taxpayers by email, text messages
(including  shortened  links),  telephone
calls, or social media channels to request
or verify personal or financial informa-
tion. This includes requests for personal
identification  numbers  (PINs),  pass-
words, or similar information for credit
cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
•  Go  to  IRS.gov/IdentityTheft ,  the
IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for
information on identity theft and data se-
curity protection for taxpayers, tax pro-
fessionals, and businesses. If your SSN
has been lost or stolen or you suspect
you’re a victim of tax-related identity
theft,  you  can  learn  what  steps  you
should take.
•  Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP
PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers as-
signed to taxpayers to help prevent the
misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent fed-
eral income tax returns. When you have
an  IP  PIN,  it  prevents  someone  else
from filing a tax return with your SSN.
To learn more, go to  IRS.gov/IPPIN .
Ways to check on the status of your
refund.
•  Go to  IRS.gov/Refunds .
•  Download the official IRS2Go app
to your mobile device to check your re-
fund status.
•  Call the automated refund hotline
at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds be-
fore mid-February for returns
that claimed the EIC or the ad-
ditional child tax credit (ACTC). This
applies to the entire refund, not just the
portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.  Payments of
U.S. tax must be remitted to the IRS in
U.S. dollars.  Digital assets  are  not  ac-
cepted. Go to  IRS.gov/Payments  for in-
formation on how to make a payment
using any of the following options.
•  IRS Direct Pay : Pay your individu-
al tax bill or estimated tax payment di-
rectly from your checking or savings ac-
count at no cost to you.
•  Debit  Card,  Credit  Card,  or
Digital Wallet : Choose an approved pay-
ment  processor  to  pay  online  or  by
phone.
•  Electronic  Funds  Withdrawal :
Schedule a payment when filing your
federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professio-
nal.
•  Electronic  Federal  Tax  Payment
System : This is the best option for busi-
nesses. Enrollment is required.
•  Check or Money Order : Mail your
payment to the address listed on the no-
tice or instructions.
•  Cash : You may be able to pay your
taxes with cash at a participating retail
store.
•  Same-Day Wire : You may be able
to do same-day wire from your financial
institution. Contact your financial insti-
tution  for  availability,  cost,  and  time
frames.
Note.  The IRS uses the latest encryp-
tion technology to ensure that the elec-
tronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using
the IRS2Go app are safe and secure.
Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money
order.
CAUTION
!
What  if  I  can’t  pay  now?  Go  to
IRS.gov/Payments  for more information
about your options.
•  Apply  for  an  online  payment
agreement  ( IRS.gov/OPA ) to meet your
tax obligation in monthly installments if
you can’t pay your taxes in full today.
Once you complete the online process,
you will receive immediate notification
of whether your agreement has been ap-
proved.
•  Use the  Offer in Compromise Pre-
Qualifier  to see if you can settle your tax
debt for less than the full amount you
owe. For more information on the Offer
in Compromise program, go to  IRS.gov/
OIC .
Filing  an  amended  return.  Go  to
IRS.gov/Form1040X  for information and
updates.
Checking the status of your amended
return.  Go to  IRS.gov/WMAR  to track
the status of Form 1040-X amended re-
turns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from
the date you filed your amended
return for it to show up in our
system, and processing it can take up to
16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received.  Go to  IRS.gov/Notices
to find additional information about re-
sponding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.  You may
be able use the Document Upload Tool
to respond digitally to eligible IRS noti-
ces and letters by securely uploading re-
quired  documents  online  through
IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT .
Schedule  LEP.  You  can  use  Sched-
ule  LEP  (Form  1040),  Request  for
Change in Language Preference, to state
a preference to receive notices, letters,
or other written communications from
the IRS in an alternative language. You
may  not  immediately  receive  written
communications  in  the  requested  lan-
guage. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline
that  began  providing  translations  in
2023. You will continue to receive com-
munications, including notices and let-
ters, in English until they are translated
to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC.  Keep in
mind, many questions can be answered
CAUTION
!
81

=== PAGE 82 ===
on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go
to  IRS.gov/LetUsHelp  for the topics peo-
ple ask about most. If you still need
help, TACs provide tax help when a tax
issue  can’t  be  handled  online  or  by
phone. All TACs now provide service by
appointment, so you’ll know in advance
that you can get the service you need
without long wait times. Before you vis-
it, go to  IRS.gov/TACLocator  to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, availa-
ble services, and appointment options.
Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the Stay
Connected tab, choose the Contact Us
option and click on “Local Offices.”
Interest and Penalties
You don’t have to figure the amount of
any interest or penalties you may owe.
We will send you a bill for any amount
due.
If you choose to include interest or
penalties (other than the estimated tax
penalty) with your payment, identify and
enter the amount in the bottom margin
of Form 1040 or 1040-SR, page 2. Don’t
include interest or penalties (other than
the estimated tax penalty) in the amount
you owe on line 37. For more informa-
tion on the estimated tax penalty, see
Line 38 , earlier.
Interest
We will charge you interest on taxes not
paid by their due date, even if an exten-
sion of time to file is granted. We will
also charge you interest on penalties im-
posed  for  failure  to  file,  negligence,
fraud, substantial or gross valuation mis-
statements, substantial understatements
of tax, and reportable transaction under-
statements. Interest is charged on the
penalty from the due date of the return
(including extensions).
Penalties
Late filing.  If you don’t file your return
by the due date (including extensions),
the penalty is usually 5% of the amount
due for each month or part of a month
your return is late, unless you have a
reasonable explanation. If you have a
reasonable explanation for filing late, in-
clude it with your return. The penalty
can be as much as 25% of the tax due.
The penalty is 15% per month, up to a
maximum of 75%, if the failure to file is
fraudulent. If your return is more than
60 days late, the minimum penalty will
be $510 or the amount of any tax you
owe, whichever is smaller.
Late payment of tax.  If you pay your
taxes late, the penalty is usually  1 / 2  of
1%  of  the  unpaid  amount  for  each
month or part of a month the tax isn't
paid. The penalty can be as much as
25% of the unpaid amount. It applies to
any unpaid tax on the return. This penal-
ty is in addition to interest charges on
late payments.
Frivolous  return.  In  addition  to  any
other penalties, the law imposes a penal-
ty of $5,000 for filing a frivolous return.
A frivolous return is one that doesn't
contain information needed to figure the
correct tax or shows a substantially in-
correct tax because you take a frivolous
position or desire to delay or interfere
with the tax laws. This includes altering
or striking out the preprinted language
above the space where you sign. For a
list of positions identified as frivolous,
see Notice 2010-33, 2010-17 I.R.B. 609,
available  at  IRS.gov/irb/
2010-17_IRB#NOT-2010-33 .
Other.  Other penalties can be imposed
for,  among  other  things,  negligence,
substantial  understatement  of  tax,  re-
portable transaction understatements, fil-
ing  an  erroneous  refund  claim,  and
fraud. Criminal penalties may be im-
posed for willful failure to file, tax eva-
sion, making a false statement, or identi-
ty theft. See Pub. 17 for details on some
of these penalties.
82

=== PAGE 83 ===
Refund Information
To check the status
of your refund, go
to  IRS.gov/Refunds
or use the free IRS2Go app, 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week. Information about
your refund will generally be available
within 24 hours after the IRS receives
your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you
mail a paper return. But if you filed
Form 8379 with your return, allow 14
weeks (11 weeks if you filed electroni-
cally) before checking your refund sta-
tus.
The  IRS  can’t  issue  refunds  before
mid-February  2025  for  returns  that
claim the earned income credit or the
additional child tax credit. This delay
applies to the entire refund, not just the
portion associated with these credits.
To  use  Where's  My  Refund ,
have a copy of your tax return
handy. You will need to enter
the following information from your re-
turn:
•  Your social security number (or in-
dividual  taxpayer  identification  num-
ber),
•  Your filing status, and
•  The exact whole dollar amount of
your refund.
Where's My Refund  will provide an
actual personalized refund date as soon
as the IRS processes your tax return and
approves your refund.
Updates  to  refund  status  are
made once a day—usually at
night.
If you don’t have Internet ac-
cess,  you  can  call
800-829-1954, 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, for automated refund in-
formation. Our phone and walk-in assis-
tors can research the status of your re-
fund only if it's been 21 days or more
since you filed electronically or more
than 6 weeks since you mailed your pa-
per return.
Don’t send in a copy of your return
unless asked to do so.
To get a refund, you must generally
file your return within 3 years from the
date the return was due (including exten-
sions).
Where's My Refund  doesn't track re-
funds that are claimed on an amended
tax return.
TIP
Refund information is also available
in  Spanish  at  IRS.gov/Spanish  and
800-829-1954.
83

=== PAGE 84 ===
Instructions for Schedule 1
Additional Income and Adjustments to Income
General Instructions
Use Schedule 1 to report income or ad-
justments to income that can’t be en-
tered directly on Form 1040, 1040-SR,
or 1040-NR.
Additional  income  is  entered  on
Schedule  1,  Part  I.  The  amount  on
line 10 of Schedule 1 is entered on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 8.
Adjustments to income are entered on
Schedule  1,  Part  II.  The  amount  on
line  26  is  entered  on  Form  1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 10.
Form(s) 1099-K
If, for tax year 2024, you received a
Form(s) 1099-K that shows payments
that were included in error (for example,
money for gifts or reimbursements) or
for personal items that you sold at a loss
(for example, an old refrigerator), enter
the amount that was included in error or
for personal items sold at a loss in the
entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
•  If the entire amount reported to
you on Form(s)1099-K was in error or
for personal items sold at a loss, enter
the total amount from Form(s) 1099-K,
box 1(a), in the entry space at the top of
Schedule 1.
•  If only some of the amount
reported to you on Form(s) 1099-K in
box 1(a) was in error or for personal
items sold at a loss, only enter the
amount that was in error or for personal
items sold at a loss in the entry space at
the top of Schedule 1. The remaining
amounts reported to you on Form(s)
1099-K should be reported elsewhere on
your return depending on the nature of
the transactions.
•  If you received more than one
incorrect Form(s) 1099-K, with amounts
reported in error or for personal items
sold at a loss, add the incorrect amounts
together and enter the total incorrect
amount in the entry space at the top of
Schedule 1. The remaining amounts
reported to you on Form(s) 1099-K in
box 1(a) should be reported elsewhere
on your return depending on the nature
of the transactions.
If you received a Form 1099-K
for  a  personal  item  that  you
sold at a gain, don't report this
amount in the entry space at the top of
Schedule  1;  instead  report  it  as  you
would report any other capital gain on
Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Example–Incorrect  Form  1099-K.
You received a Form 1099-K that incor-
rectly showed $800 of payments to you
in box 1(a). You would enter $800 in the
entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
Example–Personal  item  sold  at  a
loss.  You bought a couch for $1,000 and
sold it through a third-party vendor for
$700, which was reported in box 1(a) of
your Form 1099-K. You would enter
$700 in the entry space at the top of
Schedule 1.
Example–Personal items sold at a
loss and a gain.  In addition to selling
your couch for $700, you also sold a
handbag that you bought for $800 and
sold  for  $1,200.  Your  Form  1099-K
shows $1,900 in box 1(a). You would
enter $700 in the entry space at the top
of Schedule 1 for your loss on selling
the couch and the remaining $400 of
gain from the sale of the handbag would
be  reported  as  capital  gain  on  Form
8949 and Schedule D.
Example–Multiple  incorrect
Form(s) 1099-K.  You received a Form
1099-K that incorrectly showed $800 of
payments to you in box 1(a). You also
received a Form 1099-K that reported
$6,000 in box 1(a) but $700 of that
amount  was  reported  in  error.  You
would enter $1,500 in the entry space at
the top of Schedule 1. The remaining
$5,300 should be reported elsewhere on
your return depending on the nature of
the transactions.
TIP
Additional Income
Line 1
Taxable Refunds, Credits, or
Offsets of State and Local
Income Taxes
None of your refund is taxable
if, in the year you paid the tax,
you either (a) didn't itemize de-
ductions, or (b) elected to deduct state
and local general sales taxes instead of
state and local income taxes.
If you received a refund, credit, or
offset of state or local income taxes in
2024, you may be required to report this
amount. If you didn't receive a Form
1099-G,  check  with  the  government
agency that made the payments to you.
Your 2024 Form 1099-G may have been
made available to you only in an elec-
tronic format, and you will need to get
instructions from the agency to retrieve
this document. Report any taxable re-
fund you received even if you didn't re-
ceive Form 1099-G.
If you chose to apply part or all of the
refund to your 2024 estimated state or
local income tax, the amount applied is
treated as received in 2024. If the refund
was for a tax you paid in 2023 and you
deducted state and local income taxes on
your 2023 Schedule A, use the State and
Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet in
these instructions to see if any of your
refund is taxable.
Exception.  See  Itemized Deduction Re-
coveries  in Pub. 525 instead of using the
State  and  Local  Income  Tax  Refund
Worksheet in these instructions if any of
the following applies.
1.  You received a refund in 2024
that is for a tax year other than 2023.
2.  You received a refund other than
an income tax refund, such as a general
sales tax or real property tax refund, in
2024 of an amount deducted or credit
claimed in an earlier year.
TIP
84

=== PAGE 85 ===
3.  You had taxable income on your
2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15,
but  no  tax  on  your  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, line 16, because of the 0% tax
rate on net capital gain and qualified
dividends in certain situations.
4.  Your 2023 state and local income
tax refund is more than your 2023 state
and local income tax deduction minus
the amount you could have deducted as
your 2023 state and local general sales
taxes.
5.  You made your last payment of
2023 estimated state or local income tax
in 2024.
6.  You  owed  alternative  minimum
tax in 2023.
7.  You couldn't use the full amount
of credits you were entitled to in 2023
because the total credits were more than
the amount shown on your 2023 Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
8.  You could be claimed as a de-
pendent by someone else in 2023.
9.  You received a refund because of
a jointly filed state or local income tax
return, but you aren't filing a joint 2024
Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the same
person.
Lines 2a and 2b
Alimony Received
Line 2a
Enter amounts received as alimony or
separate maintenance pursuant to a di-
vorce or separation agreement entered
into on or before December 31, 2018,
unless that agreement was changed after
December 31, 2018, to expressly pro-
vide that alimony received isn't included
in your income. Alimony received is not
included in your income if you entered
into a divorce or separation agreement
after December 31, 2018. If you are in-
cluding alimony in your income, you
must let the person who made the pay-
ments know your social security num-
ber. If you don’t, you may have to pay a
penalty. For more details, see Pub. 504.
If you are including alimony pay-
ments from more than one divorce or
separation agreement in your income,
enter the total of all alimony received on
line 2a.
Line 2b
On line 2b, enter the month and year of
your  original  divorce  or  separation
agreement that relates to the alimony
payment, if any, reported on line 2a.
If you have alimony payments from
more  than  one  divorce  or  separation
agreement, on line 2b enter the month
and year of the divorce or separation
agreement for which you received the
most income. Attach a statement listing
the month and year of the other agree-
ments.
Line 3
Business Income or (Loss)
If you operated a business or practiced
your profession as a sole proprietor, re-
port  your  income  and  expenses  on
Schedule C.
Line 4
Other Gains or (Losses)
If you sold or exchanged assets used in a
trade or business, see the Instructions for
Form 4797.
Line 7
Unemployment Compensation
You  should  receive  a  Form  1099-G
showing in box 1 the total unemploy-
ment compensation paid to you in 2024.
Report this amount on line 7.
If the amount reported in box 1
of your Form(s) 1099-G is in-
correct, report on line 7 only
the  actual  amount  of  unemployment
compensation paid to you in 2024.
If you made contributions to a gov-
ernmental unemployment compensation
program or to a governmental paid fami-
ly leave program and you aren't itemiz-
ing deductions, reduce the amount you
report on line 7 by those contributions.
If you are itemizing deductions, see the
instructions on Form 1099-G.
If you received an overpayment of
unemployment  compensation  in  2024
and you repaid any of it in 2024, sub-
tract the amount you repaid from the to-
tal amount you received. Enter the result
on line 7. Also enter “Repaid” and the
amount you repaid on the dotted line
next to line 7. If, in 2024, you repaid
more  than  $3,000  of  unemployment
CAUTION
!
compensation that you included in gross
income in an earlier year, see  Repay-
ments  in Pub. 525 for details on how to
report the payment.
If you received unemployment
compensation  in  2024,  your
state may issue an electronic
Form 1099-G instead of it being mailed
to you. Check your state's unemployment
compensation website for more informa-
tion.
Lines 8a Through 8z
Other Income
Do  not  report  on  lines  8a
through  8z  any  income  from
self-employment  or  fees  re-
ceived as a notary public. Instead, you
must use Schedule C, even if you don’t
have any business expenses. Also don’t
report on lines 8a through 8z any non-
employee compensation shown on Form
1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, or 1099-K (un-
less  it  isn't  self-employment  income,
such  as  income  from  a  hobby  or  a
sporadic activity). Instead, see the  In-
structions  for  Recipient  included  on
Form  1099-MISC,  1099-NEC,  or
1099-K to find out where to report that
income.  For  more  information  about
what is being reported on Form 1099-K,
see the  Instructions for Payee  included
on that form and visit  IRS.gov/1099K .
Line 8a
Net operating loss (NOL) deduction.
Enter any deduction for an NOL from an
earlier year. Enter the amount in the pre-
printed parentheses (as a negative num-
ber). The amount of your deduction will
be subtracted from the other amounts of
income listed on lines 8b through 8z.
See the Instructions for Form 172 for
details.
Line 8b
Gambling.  Enter  any  gambling  win-
nings. Gambling winnings include lot-
teries, raffles, a lump-sum payment from
the sale of a right to receive future lot-
tery payments, etc. For details on gam-
bling  losses,  see  the  instructions  for
Schedule A, line 16.
TIP
CAUTION
!
85

=== PAGE 86 ===
State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 1
Be sure you have read the  Exception  in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of
Pub. 525 to figure if any of your refund is taxable.
Before you begin:
1.  Enter the income tax refund from  Form(s) 1099-G  (or similar statement). But  don’t  enter more than the amount
of your state and local income taxes shown on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Is the amount of state and local income taxes (or general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal property
taxes paid in 2023 (generally, this is the amount reported on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d) more than the
amount on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5e?
No.  Enter the amount from line 1 on line 3 and go to line 4.
2.
Yes.  
Subtract the amount on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5e,
from the amount of state and local income taxes (or
general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal
property taxes paid in 2023 (generally, this is the amount
reported on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d).
3.  Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
No.
STOP
 
None of your refund is taxable.
3. Yes.  Subtract line 2 from line 1.
4.  Enter your total itemized deductions from your 2023 Schedule A, line 17.  4.
Note.  If the filing status on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR was married filing separately and
your spouse itemized deductions in 2023, skip lines 5 through 7, enter the amount from line 4
on line 8, and go to line 9.
5.  Enter the amount shown below for the filing status claimed on your
2023  Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
•  Single or married filing separately—$13,850
•  Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$27,700
•  Head of household—$20,800  5.
6.  Check any boxes that apply.*
You were born before January 2, 1959.  You are blind.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1959.  Spouse is blind.
No boxes checked. Enter -0-.
Multiply the number of boxes checked by $1,500 ($1,850
if your 2023 filing status was single or head of household).  6.
*If your filing status is married filing separately, you can check the boxes for your spouse only
if your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a dependent on
another person's return.
7.  Add lines 5 and 6  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7.
8.  Is the amount on line 7 less than the amount on line 4?
No. STOP
None of your refund is taxable.
Yes.  Subtract line 7 from line 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8.
9.  Taxable part of your refund.  Enter the  smaller  of line 3 or line 8 here and on Schedule 1, line 1  . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
86

=== PAGE 87 ===
Attach Form(s) W-2G to Form
1040 or 1040-SR if any federal
income tax was withheld.
Line 8c
Cancellation of debt.  Enter any can-
celed debt. Canceled debt may be shown
in box 2 of Form 1099-C. However, part
or all of your income from cancellation
of debt may be nontaxable. See Pub.
4681 or go to IRS.gov and enter “can-
celed  debt”  or  “foreclosure”  in  the
search box.
Line 8d
Foreign earned income exclusion and
housing exclusion from Form 2555.
Enter the amount of your foreign earned
income  and  housing  exclusion  from
Form 2555, line 45. Enter the amount in
the preprinted parentheses (as a negative
number). The amount from Form 2555,
line 45, will be subtracted from the other
amounts of income listed on lines 8a
through  8c  and  lines  8e  through  8z.
Complete the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet if you enter an amount
on Form 2555, line 45.
Line 8e
Income from Form 8853.  Enter the to-
tal of the amounts from Form 8853,
lines 8, 12, and 26. See Pub. 969.
You may have to pay an addi-
tional tax if you received a tax-
able distribution from an Arch-
er MSA or Medicare Advantage MSA.
See the Instructions for Form 8853.
Line 8f
Income from Form 8889.  Enter the to-
tal of the amounts from Form 8889,
lines 16 and 20.
You may have to pay an addi-
tional tax if you received a tax-
able distribution from a health
savings account. See the Instructions for
Form 8889.
Line 8h
Jury duty pay.  Enter any jury duty pay
and see the instructions for line 24a.
TIP
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Line 8i
Prizes and awards.  Enter prizes and
awards  but  see  the  instructions  for
line 8m,  Olympic and Paralympic med-
als and USOC prize money , later.
Line 8j
Activity not engaged in for profit in-
come.  See Pub. 525.
Line 8k
Stock options.  Enter any income from
the exercise of stock options not other-
wise  reported  on  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, line 1h.
Line 8l
Income from the rental of personal
property if you engaged in the rental
for profit but were not in the business
of renting such property.  Also see the
instructions for line 24b, later.
Line 8m
Olympic and Paralympic medals and
USOC  prize  money.  The  value  of
Olympic and Paralympic medals and the
amount of United States Olympic Com-
mittee (USOC) prize money you receive
on account of your participation in the
Olympic or Paralympic Games may be
nontaxable. These amounts should be re-
ported  to  you  in  box  3  of  Form
1099-MISC. To see if these amounts are
nontaxable,  first  figure  your  adjusted
gross income, including the amount of
your medals and prize money.
If your adjusted gross income is not
more than $1,000,000 ($500,000 if mar-
ried filing separately), these amounts are
nontaxable and you should include the
amount in box 3 of Form 1099-MISC on
line 8m, then subtract it by including it
on line 24c.
Line 8n
Section 951(a) inclusion.  Section 951
generally requires that a U.S. sharehold-
er of a controlled foreign corporation in-
clude in income its pro rata share of the
corporation's subpart F income and its
amount determined under section 956.
Enter on line 8n from your Forms 5471
the sum of any amounts reported on
Schedule I, lines 1a through h and line 2.
Remember  to  attach  copies  of  your
Forms 5471 to your return.
Line 8o
Section  951A(a)  inclusion.  Section
951A  generally  requires  that  a  U.S.
shareholder of a controlled foreign cor-
poration include in income its global in-
tangible low-taxed income (GILTI). En-
ter on line 8o from your Forms 8992 the
sum of any amounts reported on Part II,
line 5. Remember to attach copies of
your Forms 8992.
If you made a section 962 elec-
tion and have an income inclu-
sion under section 951 or 951A,
do not report that income on line 8n or
8o, as applicable. Instead, report the tax
with respect to the section 962 election
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, and
attach a statement showing how you fig-
ured  the  tax  that  includes  the  gross
amounts  of  section  951  and  section
951A income.
Line 8p
461(l) excess business loss adjustment.
Enter the amount of your excess busi-
ness loss from Form 461, line 16.
Line 8q
Taxable distributions from an ABLE
account.  Distributions from this type of
account may be taxable if (a) they are
more than the designated beneficiary's
qualified  disability  expenses,  and  (b)
they were not included in a qualified
rollover. See Pub. 907 for more informa-
tion.
You may have to pay an addi-
tional tax if you received a tax-
able distribution from an ABLE
account. See the Instructions for Form
5329.
Line 8r
Scholarship and fellowship grants not
reported  on  Form  W-2.  Enter  the
amount of scholarship and fellowship
grants not reported on Form W-2. How-
ever, if you were a degree candidate, in-
clude on line 8r only the amounts you
used for expenses other than tuition and
course-related  expenses.  For  example,
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
87

=== PAGE 88 ===
amounts used for room, board, and trav-
el must be reported on line 8r.
Line 8s
Nontaxable amount of Medicaid waiv-
er payments included on Form 1040,
line 1a or 1d.  Certain Medicaid waiver
payments you received for caring for
someone living in your home with you
may  be  nontaxable.  Your  nontaxable
Medicaid waiver payments should be re-
ported to you on Form(s) W-2 in box 12,
Code II. If nontaxable payments were
reported to you in box 1 of Form(s)
W-2, report the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1a. If you did not receive
a Form W-2 for nontaxable payments, or
you received nontaxable payments that
you didn’t report on line 1a, and choose
to include nontaxable amounts in earned
income for purposes of claiming a credit
or other tax benefit, report the amount
on  Form  1040  or  1040-SR,  line  1d.
Then, on line 8s enter the total amount
of the nontaxable payments reported on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a or 1d, in
the entry space in the preprinted paren-
theses (as a negative number). For more
information about these payments, see
Pub. 525.
Line 8t
Pension or annuity from a nonquali-
fied deferred compensation plan or a
nongovernmental  section  457  plan.
Enter the amount that you received as a
pension or annuity from a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan or a nongo-
vernmental  457  plan.  This  may  be
shown in box 11 of Form W-2. If you
received such an amount but box 11 is
blank, contact your employer or the pay-
er for the amount received.
Line 8u
Wages earned while incarcerated.  En-
ter the amount that you received for
services performed while an inmate in a
penal  institution.  You  may  receive
Form(s) W-2 or Form(s) 1099.
Line 8v
Digital assets not reported elsewhere.
If, in 2024, you received ordinary in-
come in connection with digital assets
that isn't reported elsewhere on your re-
turn (for example, digital assets, such as
income from forks, staking, or mining,
which aren't wages reported on line 1a
or capital gain or loss reported on Form
8949 and Schedule D), report this in-
come on line 8v. Don’t report a gift or
inheritance of digital assets on line 8v.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/
Businesses/Small-Businesses-Self-
Employed/Digital-Assets .
Line 8z
Other income.  Use line 8z to report
any taxable income not reported else-
where on your return or other schedules.
List the type and amount of income. If
necessary, include a statement showing
the required information. For more de-
tails, see  Miscellaneous Income  in Pub.
525.
Examples  of  income  to  report  on
line 8z include the following.
•  Reimbursements or other amounts
received for items deducted in an earlier
year, such as medical expenses, real es-
tate taxes, general sales taxes, or home
mortgage  interest.  See  Recoveries  in
Pub. 525 for details on how to figure the
amount to report.
•  Reemployment  trade  adjustment
assistance  (RTAA)  payments.  These
payments should be shown in box 5 of
Form 1099-G.
•  Loss on certain corrective distribu-
tions of excess deferrals. See  Retirement
Plan Contributions  in Pub. 525.
•  Dividends on insurance policies if
they exceed the total of all net premiums
you paid for the contract.
•  Recapture of a charitable contribu-
tion deduction relating to the contribu-
tion of a fractional interest in tangible
personal property. See  Fractional Inter-
est  in  Tangible  Personal  Property  in
Pub. 526. Interest and an additional 10%
tax apply to the amount of the recapture.
See  the  instructions  for  Schedule  2,
line 17g.
•  Recapture of a charitable contribu-
tion deduction if the charitable organiza-
tion disposes of the donated property
within 3 years of the contribution. See
Recapture if no exempt use  in Pub. 526.
•  Taxable part of disaster relief pay-
ments. See Pub. 525 to figure the taxa-
ble part, if any. If any of your disaster
relief payment is taxable, attach a state-
ment  showing  the  total  payment  re-
ceived and how you figured the taxable
part.
•  Taxable distributions from a Cov-
erdell education savings account (ESA)
or a qualified tuition program (QTP).
Distributions from these accounts may
be taxable if (a) in the case of distribu-
tions from a QTP, they are more than the
qualified higher education expenses of
the designated beneficiary in 2024 or, in
the case of distributions from an ESA,
they are more than the qualified educa-
tion expenses of the designated benefi-
ciary in 2024; and (b) they were not in-
cluded in a qualified rollover. Nontaxa-
ble  distributions  from  these  accounts
don’t have to be reported on Form 1040
or 1040-SR. This includes rollovers and
qualified higher education expenses re-
funded to a student from a QTP that
were recontributed to a QTP with the
same  designated  beneficiary  generally
within 60 days after the date of refund.
See Pub. 970.
You may have to pay an addi-
tional tax if you received a tax-
able distribution from a Cover-
dell ESA or a QTP. See the Instructions
for Form 5329.
Nontaxable income.  Don’t report any
nontaxable income on line 8z. Examples
of nontaxable income include the fol-
lowing.
•  Child support.
•  Payments you received to help you
pay your mortgage loan under the HFA
Hardest Hit Fund or the Homeowner As-
sistance Fund.
•  Life insurance  proceeds received
because of someone's death (other than
from certain employer-owned life insur-
ance contracts).
•  Gifts and bequests. You may have
to report information on your gifts or be-
quests on Form 3520, Part IV, if you re-
ceived:
1.  A gift or bequest from a foreign
individual or foreign estate (including
foreign persons related to that foreign
individual  or  foreign  estate)  totaling
more than $100,000; or
2.  Amounts  totaling  more  than
$19,570 from a foreign corporation or
foreign  partnership  (including  foreign
persons related to such foreign corpora-
tions or foreign partnerships) that you
treated as gifts.
See the Instructions for Form 3520.
CAUTION
!
88

=== PAGE 89 ===
Adjustments to
Income
Line 11
Educator Expenses
If you were an eligible educator in 2024,
you can deduct on line 11 up to $300 of
qualified expenses you paid in 2024. If
you and your spouse are filing jointly
and both of you were eligible educators,
the maximum deduction is $600. How-
ever, neither spouse can deduct more
than $300 of their qualified expenses on
line 11. An eligible educator is a kinder-
garten through grade 12 teacher, instruc-
tor, counselor, principal, or aide who
worked in a school for at least 900 hours
during a school year.
Qualified expenses include ordinary
and necessary expenses paid:
•  For  professional  development
courses you have taken related to the
curriculum you teach or to the students
you teach; or
•  In  connection  with  books,  sup-
plies,  equipment  (including  computer
equipment, software, and services), and
other materials used in the classroom.
An ordinary expense is one that is
common and accepted in your educa-
tional field. A necessary expense is one
that is helpful and appropriate for your
profession as an educator. An expense
doesn’t have to be required to be consid-
ered necessary.
Qualified  expenses  include
amounts  paid  or  incurred  in
2024  for  personal  protective
equipment, disinfectant, and other sup-
plies  used  for  the  prevention  of  the
spread of coronavirus.
Qualified expenses don’t include ex-
penses for home schooling or for non-
athletic supplies for courses in health or
physical education.
You must reduce your qualified ex-
penses by the following amounts.
•  Excludable U.S. series EE and I
savings bond interest from Form 8815.
•  Nontaxable qualified tuition pro-
gram earnings or distributions.
•  Any  nontaxable  distribution  of
Coverdell  education  savings  account
earnings.
TIP
•  Any reimbursements you received
for these expenses that weren’t reported
to you in box 1 of your Form W-2.
For more details, use  Tax Topic 458
or see Pub. 529.
Line 12
Certain Business Expenses of
Reservists, Performing Artists,
and Fee-Basis Government
Officials
Include the following deductions on
line 12.
•  Certain business expenses of Na-
tional Guard and reserve members who
traveled more than 100 miles from home
to perform services as a National Guard
or reserve member.
•  Performing-arts-related  expenses
as a qualified performing artist.
•  Business  expenses  of  fee-basis
state or local government officials.
For more details, see Form 2106.
Line 13
Health Savings Account (HSA)
Deduction
You may be able to take this deduction if
contributions (other than employer con-
tributions, rollovers, and qualified HSA
funding distributions from an IRA) were
made to your HSA for 2024. See Form
8889.
Line 14
Moving Expenses
You can deduct moving expenses if you
are a member of the Armed Forces on
active duty and due to a military order
you  move  because  of  a  permanent
change of station. Use  Tax Topic 455  or
see Form 3903.
Line 15
Deductible Part of
Self-Employment Tax
If  you  were  self-employed  and  owe
self-employment tax, fill in Schedule SE
to figure the amount of your deduction.
The deductible part of your self-employ-
ment tax is on line 13 of Schedule SE.
Line 16
Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
Qualified Plans
If you were self-employed or a partner,
you may be able to take this deduction.
See Pub. 560 or, if you were a minister,
Pub. 517.
Line 17
Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction
You may be able to deduct the amount
you paid for health insurance (which in-
cludes medical, dental, and vision insur-
ance and qualified long-term care insur-
ance)  for  yourself,  your  spouse,  and
your dependents. The insurance can also
cover your child who was under age 27
at the end of 2024, even if the child
wasn't your dependent. A child includes
your son, daughter, stepchild, adopted
child, or foster child (defined in  Who
Qualifies as Your Dependent  in the In-
structions for Form 1040).
One of the following statements must
be true.
•  You were self-employed and had a
net  profit  for  the  year  reported  on
Schedule C or F.
•  You were a partner with net earn-
ings from self-employment.
•  You used one of the optional meth-
ods to figure your net earnings from
self-employment on Schedule SE.
•  You received wages in 2024 from
an S corporation in which you were a
more-than-2% shareholder. Health insur-
ance premiums paid or reimbursed by
the S corporation are shown as wages on
Form W-2.
The insurance plan must be establish-
ed under your business. Your personal
services must have been a material in-
come-producing factor in the business.
If you are filing Schedule C or F, the
policy can be either in your name or in
the name of the business.
If you are a partner, the policy can be
either in your name or in the name of the
partnership. You can either pay the pre-
miums yourself or your partnership can
pay them and report them as guaranteed
payments. If the policy is in your name
and you pay the premiums yourself, the
partnership must reimburse you and re-
port the premiums as guaranteed pay-
ments.
89

=== PAGE 90 ===
If you are a more-than-2% sharehold-
er in an S corporation, the policy can be
either in your name or in the name of the
S corporation. You can either pay the
premiums yourself or the S corporation
can pay them and report them as wages.
If the policy is in your name and you
pay the premiums yourself, the S corpo-
ration must reimburse you. You can de-
duct the premiums only if the S corpora-
tion reports the premiums paid or reim-
bursed as wages in box 1 of your Form
W-2 in 2024 and you also report the pre-
mium payments or reimbursements as
wages  on  Form  1040  or  1040-SR,
line 1a.
But if you were also eligible to par-
ticipate in any subsidized health plan
maintained by your or your spouse's em-
ployer for any month or part of a month
in 2024, amounts paid for health insur-
ance coverage for that month can't be
used to figure the deduction. Also, if
you were eligible for any month or part
of a month to participate in any subsi-
dized health plan maintained by the em-
ployer of either your dependent or your
child who was under age 27 at the end
of 2024, don’t use amounts paid for cov-
erage for that month to figure the deduc-
tion.
A  qualified  small  employer
health reimbursement arrange-
ment (QSEHRA) is considered
to be a subsidized health plan main-
tained by an employer.
Example.  If you were eligible to par-
ticipate in a subsidized health plan main-
tained by your spouse's employer from
September  30  through  December  31,
you can't use amounts paid for health in-
surance coverage for September through
December to figure your deduction.
Medicare premiums you voluntarily
pay to obtain insurance in your name
that  is  similar  to  qualifying  private
health insurance can be used to figure
the deduction. Amounts paid for health
insurance coverage from retirement plan
distributions that were nontaxable be-
cause you are a retired public safety offi-
cer can't be used to figure the deduction.
For more details, see Instructions for
Form 7206.
If you qualify to take the deduction,
use the Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction  Worksheet  to  figure  the
amount you can deduct.
Exceptions.  Use Form 7206 instead of
the Self-Employed Health Insurance De-
duction Worksheet in these instructions
to figure your deduction if any of the
following applies.
CAUTION
!
•  You had more than one source of
income subject to self-employment tax.
•  You file Form 2555.
•  You are using amounts paid for
qualified  long-term  care  insurance  to
figure the deduction.
Use Pub. 974 instead of the work-
sheet in these instructions if the insur-
ance plan was considered to be estab-
lished under your business and was ob-
tained through the Marketplace, and ad-
vance  payments  of  the  premium  tax
credit were made or you are claiming
the premium tax credit.
Line 18
Penalty on Early Withdrawal of
Savings
The Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID
you received will show the amount of
any penalty you were charged.
Lines 19a, 19b, and 19c
Alimony Paid
Line 19a
If you made payments to or for your
spouse or former spouse under a divorce
or separation agreement entered into on
or before December 31, 2018, you may
be able to take this deduction. You can't
take a deduction for alimony payments
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 17
Be sure you have read the  Exceptions  in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this work-
sheet instead of Form 7206 to figure your deduction.
Before you begin:
1.  Enter the total amount paid in 2024 for health insurance coverage established under your business
(or the S corporation in which you were a more-than-2% shareholder) for 2024 for you, your
spouse, and your dependents. Your insurance can also cover your child who was under age 27 at
the end of 2024, even if the child wasn't your dependent. But don’t include amounts for any month
you were eligible to participate in an employer-sponsored health plan or amounts paid from
retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a retired public safety
officer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the insurance
plan is established, minus any deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. Don’t include
Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from self-employment tax  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Self-employed health insurance deduction.  Enter the  smaller  of line 1 or line 2 here and on
Schedule 1, line 17.  Don’t  include this amount in figuring any medical expense deduction
on Schedule A  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
* If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment, don’t enter your net profit. Instead, enter the amount
from Schedule SE, line 4b.
** Earned income  includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it doesn't include
capital gain income. If you were a more-than-2% shareholder in the S corporation under which the insurance plan is established, earned
income is your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from that corporation.
90

=== PAGE 91 ===
you made to or for your spouse if you
entered into your divorce or separation
agreement after December 31, 2018, or
if you entered into the agreement on or
before  December  31,  2018,  and  the
agreement was changed after December
31, 2018, to expressly provide that ali-
mony received is not included in your
former spouse's income. Use  Tax Topic
452  or see Pub. 504.
Line 19c
On line 19c, enter the month and year of
your  original  divorce  or  separation
agreement that relates to this deduction
for alimony paid.
Line 20
IRA Deduction
If you made any nondeductible
contributions  to  a  traditional
individual retirement arrange-
ment (IRA) for 2024, you must report
them on Form 8606.
You are entitled to a deduction
for your contribution to a tradi-
tional IRA regardless of age.
If you made contributions to a tradi-
tional IRA for 2024, you may be able to
take an IRA deduction. But you, or your
spouse if filing a joint return, must have
had earned income to do so. For IRA
purposes, earned income includes alimo-
ny and separate maintenance payments
reported on Schedule 1, line 2a. If you
were  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Armed
Forces, earned income includes any non-
taxable combat pay you received. If you
were self-employed, earned income is
generally  your  net  earnings  from
self-employment if your personal serv-
ices were a material income-producing
factor. For more details, see Pub. 590-A.
A statement should be sent to you by
June 2, 2025, that shows all contribu-
tions to your traditional IRA for 2024.
Use the IRA Deduction Worksheet to
figure the amount, if any, of your IRA
TIP
TIP
deduction. But read the following list
before you fill in the worksheet.
1.  You can't deduct contributions to
a Roth IRA. But you may be able to take
the  retirement  savings  contributions
credit (saver's credit). See the instruc-
tions for Schedule 3, line 4.
2.  If you are filing a joint return and
you or your spouse made contributions
to both a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA
for 2024, don’t use the IRA Deduction
Worksheet in these instructions. Instead,
see Pub. 590-A to figure the amount, if
any, of your IRA deduction.
3.  You can’t deduct elective defer-
rals to a 401(k) plan, 403(b) plan, sec-
tion 457 plan, SIMPLE IRA plan, or the
federal  Thrift  Savings  Plan.  These
amounts aren't included as income in
box 1 of your Form W-2.
4.  If you made contributions to your
IRA in 2024 that you deducted for 2023,
don’t include them in the worksheet.
5.  If you received income from a
nonqualified  deferred  compensation
plan  or  nongovernmental  section  457
plan that is included in box 1 of your
Form  W-2,  or  in  box  1  of  Form
1099-NEC, don’t include that income on
line 8 of the worksheet. The income
should be shown in (a) box 11 of your
Form W-2, (b) box 12 of your Form
W-2 with code Z, or (c) box 15 of Form
1099-MISC. If it isn't, contact your em-
ployer or the payer for the amount of the
income.
6.  You must file a joint return to de-
duct contributions to your spouse's IRA.
Enter the total IRA deduction for you
and your spouse on line 20.
7.  Don’t include rollover contribu-
tions in figuring your deduction. Instead,
see the instructions for Form 1040 or
1040-SR, lines 4a and 4b.
8.  Don't include trustees' fees that
were billed separately and paid by you
for your IRA.
9.  Don’t include any repayments of
qualified  reservist  distributions.  You
can't deduct them. For information on
how  to  report  these  repayments,  see
Qualified reservist repayments  in Pub.
590-A.
10.  If the total of your IRA deduction
on line 20 plus any nondeductible con-
tribution to your traditional IRAs shown
on Form 8606 is less than your total tra-
ditional IRA contributions for 2024, see
Pub. 590-A for special rules.
Were You Covered by a Retirement
Plan?
If you were covered by a retirement plan
(qualified  pension,  profit-sharing  (in-
cluding 401(k)), annuity, SEP, SIMPLE,
etc.) at work or through self-employ-
ment, your IRA deduction may be re-
duced or eliminated. But you can still
make contributions to an IRA even if
you can't deduct them. In any case, the
income earned on your IRA contribu-
tions isn't taxed until it is paid to you.
The “Retirement plan” box in box 13
of your Form W-2 should be checked if
you were covered by a plan at work
even if you weren’t vested in the plan.
You are also covered by a plan if you
were  self-employed  and  had  a  SEP,
SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan.
If you were covered by a retirement
plan and you file Form 2555 or 8815, or
you  exclude  employer-provided  adop-
tion benefits, see Pub. 590-A to figure
the amount, if any, of your IRA deduc-
tion.
Married persons filing separately.  If
you  weren’t  covered  by  a  retirement
plan but your spouse was, you are con-
sidered covered by a plan unless you
lived apart from your spouse for all of
2024.
You may be able to take the re-
tirement  savings  contributions
credit.  See  the  Schedule  3,
line 4, instructions.
TIP
91

=== PAGE 92 ===
IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
Be sure you have read the instructions for this line. You may not be able to use this worksheet.
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1,
line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, enter “D” on the dotted
line next to Schedule 1, line 20. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Before you begin:
Your IRA  Spouse's IRA
1a.  Were you covered by a retirement plan (see  Were You Covered by a Retirement
Plan )?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1a.  Yes  No
b.  If married filing jointly, was your spouse covered by a retirement plan?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1b.  
Yes  No
Next.  If you checked “No” on line 1a (and “No” on line 1b if married filing
jointly), skip lines 2 through 6, enter the applicable amount below on line 7a
(and line 7b, if applicable), and go to line 8.
•  $7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
•  $8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
Otherwise, go to line 2.
2.  Enter the amount shown below that applies to you.
•  Single, head of household, or married filing separately and you
lived apart  from your spouse for all of 2024, enter $87,000.
•  Qualifying surviving spouse, enter $143,000.  2a.  2b.
•  Married filing jointly, enter $143,000 in both columns. But if you checked
“No” on either line 1a or 1b, enter $240,000 for the person who wasn't
covered by a plan.
•  Married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at any time in
2024, enter $10,000.
3.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1,
lines 11 through 19a, plus 23 and 25  . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Subtract line 4 from line 3. If married filing jointly, enter the result in both
columns  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5a.  5b.
6.  Is the amount on line 5 less than the amount on line 2?
No. STOP  
None of your IRA contributions are deductible. For details on
nondeductible IRA contributions, see Form 8606.
Yes.  
Subtract line 5 from line 2 in each column. Follow the instruction
below that applies to you.
•  If single, head of household, or married filing separately,
and the result is $10,000 or more, enter the applicable
amount below on line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i.  $7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
ii.  $8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
If the result is less than $10,000, go to line 7.  6a.  6b.
•  If married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
and the result is $20,000 or more ($10,000 or more in the
column for the IRA of a person who wasn't covered by a
retirement plan), enter the applicable amount below on
line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i.  $7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
ii.  $8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
Otherwise, go to line 7.
92

=== PAGE 93 ===
Line 21
Student Loan Interest Deduction
You can take this deduction only if all of
the following apply.
•  You  paid  interest  in  2024  on  a
qualified student loan (defined later).
•  Your filing status is any status ex-
cept married filing separately.
•  Your modified adjusted gross in-
come (AGI) is less than $95,000 if sin-
gle, head of household, or qualifying
surviving spouse; $195,000 if married
filing jointly. Use lines 2 through 4 of
the worksheet in these instructions to
figure your modified AGI.
•  You, or your spouse if filing joint-
ly,  aren't  claimed  as  a  dependent  on
someone else's (such as your parent's)
2024 tax return.
Don't include any amount paid from a
a distribution of earnings made from a
qualified  tuition  program  (QTP)  after
2018 to the extent the earnings are trea-
ted as tax free because they were used to
pay student loan interest.
Use the worksheet in these instruc-
tions to figure your student loan interest
deduction.
Exception.  Use Pub. 970 instead of the
worksheet in these instructions to figure
your student loan interest deduction if
you file Form 2555 or 4563, or you ex-
clude income from sources within Puer-
to Rico.
Qualified  student  loan.  A  qualified
student loan is any loan you took out to
pay the qualified higher education ex-
penses for any of the following individu-
als who were eligible students.
1.  Yourself or your spouse.
2.  Any person who was your de-
pendent when the loan was taken out.
IRA Deduction Worksheet— Continued
Your IRA  Spouse's IRA
7.  Multiply lines 6a and 6b by the percentage below that applies to you. If the
result isn't a multiple of $10, increase it to the next multiple of $10 (for
example, increase $490.30 to $500). If the result is $200 or more, enter the
result. But if it is less than $200, enter $200.
•  Single, head of household, or married filing separately, multiply
by 70% (0.70) (or by 80% (0.80) in the column for the IRA of a person who
is age 50 or older at the end of 2024).
•  Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, multiply by 35%
(0.35) (or by 40% (0.40) in the column for the IRA of a person
who is age 50 or older at the end of 2024). But if you checked “No”
on either line 1a or 1b, then in the column for the IRA of the person
who wasn't covered by a retirement plan, multiply by
70% (0.70) (or by 80% (0.80) if age 50 or older at the
end of 2024).
7a.  7b.
8.  Enter the total of your (and your spouse's if filing
jointly):
•  Wages, salaries, tips, etc. Generally, this is the
amount reported in box 1 of Form W-2. Exceptions
are explained earlier in these instructions for line 20.  8.
•  Alimony and separate maintenance payments
reported on Schedule 1, line 2a.
•  Nontaxable combat pay. This amount should be
reported in box 12 of Form W-2 with code Q or
reported on Form 1040, line 1i.
9.  Enter the earned income you (and your spouse if
filing jointly) received as a self-employed individual
or a partner. Generally, this is your (and your
spouse's if filing jointly) net earnings from
self-employment if your personal services were a
material income-producing factor, minus any
deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. If zero or
less, enter -0-. For more details, see Pub.
590-A  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
10.  Add lines 8 and 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10.
CAUTION
!
If married filing jointly and line 10 is less than $14,000 ($15,000 if
one spouse is age 50 or older at the end of 2024; $16,000 if both
spouses are age 50 or older at the end of 2024),  stop here  and use
the worksheet in Pub. 590-A to figure your IRA deduction.
11.  Enter traditional IRA contributions made, or that will be made by the due date
of your 2024 return not counting extensions (April 15, 2025, for most people),
for 2024 to your IRA on line 11a and to your spouse's IRA on line 11b  . . . . . .  11a.  11b.
12.  On line 12a, enter the  smallest  of line 7a, 10, or 11a. On line 12b, enter the
smallest  of line 7b, 10, or 11b. This is the most you can deduct. Add the
amounts on lines 12a and 12b and enter the total on Schedule 1, line 20. Or, if
you want, you can deduct a smaller amount and treat the rest as a
nondeductible contribution (see Form 8606)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12a.  12b.
93

=== PAGE 94 ===
3.  Any  person  you  could  have
claimed as a dependent for the year the
loan was taken out except that:
a.  The person filed a joint return;
b.  The person had gross income that
was equal to or more than the exemption
amount for that year or $5,050 for 2024;
or
c.  You,  or  your  spouse  if  filing
jointly, could be claimed as a dependent
on someone else's return.
However, a loan isn't a qualified stu-
dent loan if (a) any of the proceeds were
used for other purposes, or (b) the loan
was from either a related person or a
person who borrowed the proceeds un-
der a qualified employer plan or a con-
tract purchased under such a plan. For
details, see Pub. 970.
Qualified higher education expenses.
Qualified  higher  education  expenses
generally include tuition, fees, room and
board,  and  related  expenses  such  as
books and supplies. The expenses must
be for education in a degree, certificate,
or similar program at an eligible educa-
tional institution. An eligible education-
al  institution  includes  most  colleges,
universities,  and  certain  vocational
schools. For details, see Pub. 970.
Line 22
Line 22 has been reserved for future use.
Line 23
Archer MSA Deduction
See Form 8853.
Lines 24a Through 24z
Line 24a
Jury duty pay.  Enter your jury duty
pay if you gave the pay to your employ-
er because your employer paid your sal-
ary while you served on the jury.
Line 24b
Enter the deductible expenses related to
income reported on line 8l from the rent-
al of personal property you engaged in
for profit but were not in the business of
renting such property.
Line 24c
Enter the nontaxable amount of the val-
ue of Olympic and Paralympic medals
and  USOC  prize  money  reported  on
line 8m.
Line 24d
Enter reforestation amortization and ex-
penses (see Instructions for Form 4562).
Line 24e
Enter repayment of supplemental unem-
ployment benefits under the Trade Act
of 1974 (see Pub. 525).
Line 24f
Enter contributions to section 501(c)(18)
(D) pension plans (see Pub. 525).
Line 24g
Enter contributions by certain chaplains
to section 403(b) plans (see Pub. 517).
Student Loan Interest Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 21
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1,
line 24z).
Be sure you have read the  Exception  in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet
instead of Pub. 970 to figure your deduction.
Before you begin:
1.  Enter the total interest you paid in 2024 on qualified student loans (see the instructions for line 21).  Don’t
enter more than $2,500  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and
25  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Subtract line 3 from line 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
•  Single, head of household, or qualifying
surviving spouse—$80,000
•  Married filing jointly—$165,000
. . . . . . . . . . .  
5.
6.  Is the amount on line 4 more than the amount on line 5?
No.  Skip lines 6 and 7, enter -0- on line 8, and go to line 9.
Yes.  Subtract line 5 from line 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
6.
7.  Divide line 6 by $15,000 ($30,000 if married filing jointly). Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7.  .
8.  Multiply line 1 by line 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8.
9.  Student loan interest deduction.  Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result here and on Schedule 1,
line 21.
Don’t  include this amount in figuring any other deduction on your return (such as on Schedule A, C,
E, etc.)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
94

=== PAGE 95 ===
Line 24h
Enter attorney fees and court costs for
actions involving certain unlawful dis-
crimination claims, but only to the ex-
tent of gross income from such actions
(see Pub. 525).
Line 24i
Enter attorney fees and court costs you
paid in connection with an award from
the IRS for information you provided
that helped the IRS detect tax law viola-
tions, up to the amount of the award in-
cludible in your gross income.
Line 24j
Enter the housing deduction from Form
2555.
Line 24k
Enter excess deductions of section 67(e)
expenses  from  Schedule  K-1  (Form
1041), box 11, code A. See the Instruc-
tions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1041).
Line 24z
Leave line 24z blank.
95

=== PAGE 96 ===
Instructions for Schedule 2
Additional Taxes
General Instructions
Use Schedule 2 if you have additional
taxes that can’t be entered directly on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Include the amount on Schedule 2,
line  3,  in  the  total  on  Form  1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 17.
Enter  the  amount  on  Schedule  2,
line  21,  on  Form  1040  or  1040-SR,
line 23; or 1040-NR, line 23b.
Specific Instructions
Lines 1a Through 1z
Additions to Tax
Line 1a. Excess advance premium tax
credit  repayment.  The  premium  tax
credit helps pay premiums for health in-
surance  purchased  from  the  Market-
place. Eligible individuals may have ad-
vance  payments  of  the  premium  tax
credit paid on their behalf directly to the
insurance company. If you, your spouse
with whom you are filing a joint return,
or your dependent was enrolled in cov-
erage purchased from the Marketplace
and advance payments of the premium
tax credit were made for the coverage,
complete Form 8962 to reconcile (com-
pare) the advance payments with your
premium tax credit. You (or whoever en-
rolled you) should have received Form
1095-A from the Marketplace with in-
formation about your coverage and any
advance credit payments. If the advance
credit payments were more than the pre-
mium  tax  credit  you  can  claim,  the
amount you must repay will be shown
on  Form  8962,  line  29.  Enter  that
amount, if any, on line 1a.
You may have to repay excess ad-
vance  payments  of  the  premium  tax
credit  even  if  someone  else  enrolled
you, your spouse, or your dependent in
Marketplace coverage. In that case, an-
other individual may have received the
Form 1095-A for the coverage. You may
also have to repay excess advance pay-
ments of the premium tax credit if you
enrolled  an  individual  in  coverage
through  the  Marketplace,  you  don’t
claim the individual as a dependent on
your return, and no one else claims that
individual as a dependent. For more in-
formation, see the Instructions for Form
8962.
Line 1b. Repayment of new clean ve-
hicle credit(s) from Schedule A (Form
8936), Part II.  If you purchased a new
clean vehicle from a registered dealer
and reduced the amount you paid at the
time of sale by transferring the credit to
the dealer, you may have to repay the
amount of the credit you transferred if
you no longer qualify. If you completed
Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II and
you:
•  Checked the "Yes" box on Part II,
line 8a or 8d; and
•  Checked the "Yes" box on Part I,
line 4a;
Then,  enter  the  amount  from  Part  I,
line 4a on Schedule 2, line 1b.
If  you  completed  more  than  one
Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II, and
you need to report an amount from more
than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part
II, enter the total of those amounts on
line 1b.
Line  1c.  Repayment  of  previously
owned  clean  vehicle  credit(s)  from
Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV.  If
you purchased a previously owned clean
vehicle from a registered dealer and re-
duced the amount you paid at the time of
sale  by  transferring  the  credit  to  the
dealer,  you  may  have  to  repay  the
amount of the credit you transferred if
you no longer qualify. If you completed
Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV and
you:
•  Checked the "Yes" box on Part IV,
line 13a or 13c; and
•  Checked the "Yes" box on Part I,
line 4a;
Then,  enter  the  amount  from  Part  I,
line 4a on Schedule 2, line 1c.
If  you  completed  more  than  one
Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV, and
you need to report an amount from more
than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part
IV, enter the total of those amounts on
line 1c.
Line 1d. Recapture of net EPE.  Enter
any  amount  of  net  elective  payment
election  (EPE)  recapture  from  Form
4255, line 2a, column (l).
Line  1e.  Excessive  payments  (EP)
from Form 4255, column (n).  If you
reported an amount on Form 4255, col-
umn (n) on line 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a,
check the applicable box and enter the
amount on line 1e. If you checked more
than one box, enter the total amount on
line 1e.
Line 1f. 20% EP from Form 4255, col-
umn  (o).  If  Form  4255,  column  (o),
line 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a includes an ad-
ditional 20% EP that you owe (calcula-
ted as 20% of the total EP before figur-
ing the 20% EP), check the applicable
box and enter the 20% EP amount inclu-
ded on line 1f. Enter only the 20% EP
from  column  (o)  on  line  1f.  If  you
checked more than one box, enter the to-
tal of the 20% EP amounts from each
box on line 1f. Any other EP amounts
reported  on  Form  4255,  column  (o),
lines 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a should be in-
cluded on line 1y. See the instructions
for line 1y.
Line 1y. Other additions to tax.  Enter
the following additions to tax.
1.  Recapture of the alternative fuel
vehicle  refueling  property  credit  (see
Form 8911). Identify as “ARPCR.”
2.  Any EPE related to the credit ap-
plied against tax from Form 8933 repor-
ted on Form 4255, line 2a, column (k).
Identify as “EPE8933.”
3.  Recapture of any non-EPE credit
from Form 8933 reported on Form 4255,
line 2a, column (j). Also, any section
6418(g)(3) amounts attributable to re-
capture  from  Form  8933  reported  on
Form 4255, line 2a, column (m). Identi-
fy as “NEPE8933.”
4.  Any  amount  from  Form  4255,
column (o) that was not reported on
line 1f. Identify as “EPGEPE.”
96

=== PAGE 97 ===
5.  Any section 6418(g)(2) excessive
credit transfer amount reported on Form
4255, column (m). Identify as “6418(g)
(2).”
For  more  information  about
elective pay and credit transfer-
ability, go to  IRS.gov/Credits-
Deductions/Elective-Pay-and-
Transferability-Frequently-Asked-
Questions-Transferability .
Line 2
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
The  AMT  exemption  amount  is  in-
creased to $85,700 ($133,300 if married
filing  jointly  or  qualifying  surviving
spouse; $66,650 if married filing sepa-
rately). The income levels at which the
AMT exemption begins to phase out has
increased  to  $609,350  ($1,218,700  if
married filing jointly or qualifying sur-
viving spouse).
If you aren't sure whether you owe
the AMT, complete the Worksheet To
See if You Should Fill in Form 6251.
Exception.  Fill in Form 6251 instead of
using the worksheet if you claimed or
received any of the following items.
•  Accelerated depreciation.
•  Tax-exempt interest from private
activity bonds.
•  Intangible drilling, circulation, re-
search, experimental, or mining costs.
•  Amortization  of  pollution-control
facilities or depletion.
•  Income or (loss) from tax-shelter
farm activities, passive activities, part-
nerships, S corporations, or activities for
which you aren't at risk.
•  Income from long-term contracts
not  figured  using  the  percent-
age-of-completion method.
•  Investment interest expense repor-
ted on Form 4952.
•  Net operating loss deduction.
•  Alternative  minimum  tax  adjust-
ments  from  an  estate,  trust,  electing
large partnership, or cooperative.
•  Section 1202 exclusion.
•  Stock by exercising an incentive
stock option and you didn't dispose of
the stock in the same year.
•  Any general business credit claim-
ed on Form 3800 if either line 6 (in Part
I) or line 25 of Form 3800 is more than
zero.
•  Qualified electric vehicle credit.
TIP
•  Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
property tax.
•  Credit for prior year minimum tax.
•  Foreign tax credit.
•  Net qualified disaster loss and you
are reporting your standard deduction on
Schedule A, line 16. See the instructions
for Form 4684 for more information.
For help with the alternative mini-
mum tax, go to  IRS.gov/AMT .
Line 5
Unreported Social Security and
Medicare Tax From Form 4137
Enter the total of any taxes from Form
4137.
If you received tips of $20 or more in
any month and you didn't report the full
amount to your employer, you must pay
the social security and Medicare or rail-
road retirement (RRTA) tax on the unre-
ported tips.
Don’t include the value of any non-
cash tips, such as tickets or passes. You
don’t pay social security and Medicare
taxes or RRTA tax on these noncash
tips.
To  figure  the  social  security  and
Medicare tax, use Form 4137. If you
owe RRTA tax, contact your employer.
Your employer will figure and collect
the RRTA tax.
You may be charged a penalty
equal to 50% of the social se-
curity and Medicare or RRTA
tax due on tips you received but didn't
report to your employer.
Line 6
Unreported Social Security and
Medicare Tax From Form 8919
Enter the total of any taxes from Form
8919.
If you are an employee who received
wages  from  an  employer  who  didn't
withhold social security and Medicare
tax from your wages, use Form 8919 to
figure your share of the unreported tax.
Include  on  line  6  the  amount  from
line  13  of  Form  8919.  Include  the
amount from line 6 of Form 8919 on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1g.
CAUTION
!
Line 8
Additional Tax on IRAs, Other
Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
If any of the following apply, see Form
5329 and its instructions to find out if
you owe this tax and if you must file
Form 5329. Also see Form 5329 and its
instructions for definitions of the terms
used here.
1.  You received an early distribution
from (a) an IRA or other qualified retire-
ment plan, (b) an annuity, or (c) a modi-
fied endowment contract entered into af-
ter June 20, 1988, and the total distribu-
tion wasn't rolled over.
2.  Excess contributions were made
to your IRA, Coverdell education sav-
ings  account  (ESA),  Archer  MSA,
health savings account (HSA), or ABLE
account.
3.  You received a taxable distribu-
tion from a Coverdell ESA, qualified
tuition program, or ABLE account.
4.  You didn't take the minimum re-
quired distribution from your IRA or
other qualified retirement plan by April
1 of the year following the year you
reached age 73.
Exception.  If only item (1) applies and
distribution code 1 is correctly shown in
box 7 of all your Forms 1099-R, you
don’t have to file Form 5329. Instead,
multiply the taxable amount of the dis-
tribution by 10% (0.10) and enter the re-
sult on line 8. The taxable amount of the
distribution is the part of the distribution
you reported on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 4b or 5b, or on Form
4972. Also check the box on line 8 to in-
dicate that you don’t have to file Form
5329. But you must file Form 5329 if
distribution code 1 is incorrectly shown
in box 7 of Form 1099-R or you qualify
for an exception, such as the exceptions
for qualified medical expenses, qualified
higher  education  expenses,  qualified
first-time homebuyer distributions, or a
qualified reservist distribution.
Line 9
Household Employment Taxes
Enter the household employment taxes
you owe for having a household em-
ployee. If any of the following apply,
97

=== PAGE 98 ===
Worksheet To See if You Should Fill in Form 6251—Schedule 2, Line 2
Be sure you have read the  Exception  in the instructions for this line to see if you must fill in Form 6251 instead of
using this worksheet.
Before you begin:
1.  Are you filing  Schedule A ?
No.  
Skip lines 1 and 2; subtract Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 13, or Form 1040-NR, line 13a, from Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, and enter the result on line 3 and go to line 4.
Yes.  Enter the amount from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 15  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter the amount from Schedule A, line 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Add lines 1 and 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.
4.  Enter any tax refund from Schedule 1, lines 1 and 8z  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.
5.  Subtract line 4 from line 3  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5.
6.  Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
•  Single or head of household—$85,700
•  Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$133,300
•  Married filing separately—$66,650
. . . . . . . . . . .  6.
7.  Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 6?
No.
STOP
Don’t complete the rest of this worksheet. You don’t owe alternative minimum
tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 2, blank.
Yes.  Subtract line 6 from line 5  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7.
8.  Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
•  Single or head of household—$609,350
•  Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$1,218,700
•  Married filing separately—$609,350
. . . . . . . . . . .  8.
9.  Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 8?
No.  Enter -0-. Skip line 10. Enter on line 11 the amount from line 7, and go to line 12.
Yes.  Subtract line 8 from line 5  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9.
10.  Multiply line 9 by 25% (0.25) and enter the  smaller  of the result or line 6  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10.
11.  Add lines 7 and 10  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11.
12.  Is the amount on line 11 more than $232,600 ($116,300 if married filing separately)?
Yes.
STOP
 Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.
No.  Multiply line 11 by 26% (0.26)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12.
13.  Add Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16 (minus any tax from Form 4972), and Schedule 2, line 1z. (If you used
Schedule J to figure your tax on the entry space on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16, refigure that tax
without using Schedule J before including it in this calculation.)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13.
Next.  Is the amount on line 12 more than the amount on line 13?
Yes.  Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.
No.  You don’t owe alternative minimum tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 2, blank.
98

=== PAGE 99 ===
see Schedule H and its instructions to
find out if you owe these taxes.
1.  You paid any one household em-
ployee (defined below) cash wages of
$2,700 or more in 2024. Cash wages in-
clude wages paid by check, money or-
der, etc. But don’t count amounts paid to
an employee who was under age 18 at
any time in 2024 and was a student.
2.  You withheld federal income tax
during 2024 at the request of any house-
hold employee.
3.  You  paid  total  cash  wages  of
$1,000 or more in any calendar quarter
of 2023 or 2024 to household employ-
ees.
Any person who does household work is
a household employee if you can control
what will be done and how it will be
done.  Household  work  includes  work
done in or around your home by babysit-
ters, nannies, health aides, housekeepers,
yard  workers,  and  similar  domestic
workers.
Line 10
First-Time Homebuyer Credit
Repayment
Enter  the  first-time  homebuyer  credit
you have to repay if you bought the
home in 2008.
If you bought the home in 2008 and
owned and used it as your main home
for all of 2024, you can enter your 2024
repayment on this line without attaching
Form 5405.
See the Form 5405 instructions for
details and for exceptions to the repay-
ment rule.
The 15-year repayment period
for  the  first-time  homebuyer
credit for homes purchased in
2008 began with your 2010 tax return
and ends with your 2024 tax return.
Line 11
Additional Medicare Tax
See Form 8959 and its instructions if the
total  of  your  2024  wages  and  any
self-employment income was more than:
•  $125,000  if  married  filing  sepa-
rately;
•  $250,000 if married filing jointly;
or
TIP
•  $200,000 if single, head of house-
hold, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Also see Form 8959 if you had railroad
retirement  (RRTA)  compensation  that
was more than the amount just listed
that applies to you.
If you are married filing jointly and
either you or your spouse had wages or
RRTA  compensation  of  more  than
$200,000,  your  employer  may  have
withheld Additional Medicare Tax even
if you don’t owe the tax. In that case,
you may be able to get a refund of the
tax withheld. See the Instructions for
Form 8959 to find out how to report the
withheld tax on Form 8959.
Line 12
Net Investment Income Tax
See Form 8960 and its instructions if the
amount  on  Form  1040,  1040-SR,  or
1040-NR, line 11, is more than:
•  $125,000  if  married  filing  sepa-
rately,
•  $250,000 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse, or
•  $200,000  if  single  or  head  of
household.
If you file Form 2555, see Form 8960
and its instructions if the amount on
Form  1040,  1040-SR,  or  1040-NR,
line 11, is more than:
•  $0 if married filing separately,
•  $123,500 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse, or
•  $73,500 if single or head of house-
hold.
Line 13
Uncollected social security and Medi-
care  or  RRTA  tax  on  tips  or
group-term  life  insurance.  This  tax
should be shown in box 12 of Form W-2
with codes A and B or M and N.
Line 14
Interest on Tax Due on Installment
Income From the Sale of Certain
Residential Lots and Timeshares
Enter interest on tax due on installment
income from the sale of certain residen-
tial lots and timeshares under section
453(l)(3).
Line 15
Interest on the Deferred Tax on
Gain From Certain Installment
Sales With a Sales Price Over
$150,000
Enter interest on the deferred tax on gain
from  certain  installment  sales  with  a
sales price over $150,000 under section
453A(c).
Line 16
Recapture of Low-Income
Housing Credit
Enter  the  amount  from  Form  8611,
line 14.
Lines 17a Through 17z
Other Additional Taxes
Line 17a.  Recapture of the following
credits.
1.  Amounts from Form 4255, col-
umn (j), lines 1b and 1j; and the Form
3468, Parts II and VII amounts that get
reported on Form 4255, line 1z. Identify
as “3468.”
2.  Non-EPE  recapture  applied
against tax from Form 3468, Part IV, re-
ported on Form 4255, line 1d, column
(j). Identify as “NEPE3458.”
3.  New  markets  credit  (see  Form
8874). Identify as “NMCR.”
4.  Credit  for  employer-provided
childcare  facilities  (see  Form  8882).
Identify as “ECCFR.”
5.  Any section 6418(g)(3) amounts
attributable  to  recapture  from  Form
4255, column (m). Identify as “6418(g)
(3).”
Line 17b.  If you sold your home in
2024 and it was financed (in whole or in
part) from the proceeds of any tax-ex-
empt qualified mortgage bond or you
claimed the mortgage interest credit, you
may owe a recapture tax on the mort-
gage subsidy. See Form 8828.
Line 17c.  Enter any additional tax on
health savings account (HSA) distribu-
tions  you  received  from  Form  8889,
line 17b. See Form 8889, Part II.
Line 17d.  Enter any additional tax for
failure to remain an eligible individual
during  the  testing  period  from  Form
8889, line 21. See Form 8889, Part III.
99

=== PAGE 100 ===
Line 17e.  Enter any additional tax on
Archer MSA distributions from Form
8853, line 9b. See Form 8853.
Line 17f.  Enter any additional tax on
Medicare Advantage MSA distributions
from Form 8853, line 13b. See Form
8853.
Line 17g.  Enter any additional tax on
recapture of a charitable contribution de-
duction relating to a fractional interest in
tangible personal property. See Pub. 526
for more information.
Line 17h.  Enter any additional tax on
income you received from a nonquali-
fied  deferred  compensation  plan  that
fails to meet the requirements of section
409A. This income should be shown in
box 12 of Form W-2 with code Z, or in
box 15 of Form 1099-MISC. The tax is
20% of the amount required to be inclu-
ded in income plus an interest amount
determined under section 409A(a)(1)(B)
(ii). See section 409A(a)(1)(B) for de-
tails.
Line 17i.  Enter any additional tax on
compensation you received from a non-
qualified  deferred  compensation  plan
described in section 457A if the com-
pensation would have been includible in
your income in an earlier year except
that the amount wasn't determinable un-
til 2024. The tax is 20% of the amount
required to be included in income plus
an  interest  amount  determined  under
section 457A(c)(2). See section 457A
for details.
Line 17j.  Enter any Section 72(m)(5)
excess benefits tax. See Pub. 560 for
more information.
Line  17k.  If  you  received  an  excess
parachute payment (EPP), you must pay
a 20% tax on it. This tax should be
shown in box 12 of Form W-2 with code
K. If you received a Form 1099-MISC,
the tax is 20% of the EPP shown in
box 14. Enter this amount on line 17k.
Line 17l.  Enter any tax on accumula-
tion  distribution  of  trusts.  See  Form
4970 for more information.
Line 17m.  Enter any excise tax on in-
sider stock compensation from an expa-
triated corporation. See section 4985.
Line 17n.  Enter any look-back interest
under  section  167(g)  or  460(b).  See
Form 8697 or 8866 for more informa-
tion.
Line 17o.  Enter any tax on non-effec-
tively connected income for any part of
the year you were a nonresident alien.
See the Instructions for Form 1040-NR
for more information.
Line  17p.  Enter  any  interest  amount
from Form 8621, line 16f, relating to
distributions from, and dispositions of,
stock of a section 1291 fund.
Line  17q.  Enter  any  interest  amount
from Form 8621, line 24.
Line 17z.  Use line 17z to report any
taxes not reported elsewhere on your re-
turn or other schedules. List the type and
amount of tax.
Other taxes to be listed include the
following.
•  The prevailing wage and appren-
ticeship  penalties  (PWA)  from  Form
4255 for the following:
1.  Form 7210/Form 4255, line 1c,
column (p). Identify as “PWA7210.”
2.  Form 8933/Form 4255, line 2a,
column (p). Identify as “PWA8933.”
3.  Any  amount  from  Form  4255,
column  (p),  not  reported  elsewhere.
Identify as “NPWA.”
•  Form 8978 adjustment. Complete
the  Negative  Form  8978  Adjustment
Worksheet—Schedule  2  (Line  17z)  if
you are filing Form 8978 and completed
the worksheet in the Schedule 3, line 6l,
instructions and the amount on line 3 of
that worksheet is negative.
Line 19
Recapture of Net EPE From Form
4255
Enter the recapture amount of the net
EPE claimed on Form 4255, line 1d,
column (l) related to the credit from
Form 3468, Part IV.
Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 2 (Line 17z)
Complete this worksheet if you completed line 3 on the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 3,
line 6l, instructions.
1.  Enter the sum of any chapter 1 taxes* (other than your negative Form 8978 adjustment) reported in Part II of
Schedule 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter as a positive number the negative amount from line 3 of the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in
the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
Yes.  List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 2 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.
No.  List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 1 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.
Combine this amount with any other amounts reported on line 17z to complete the line 17z entry space.
*  Chapter 1 taxes include taxes from sections 1 through 1400Z-2 of the Code, as well as certain amounts the Code treats as chapter 1 taxes. Generally,
this does not include amounts reported on Schedule 2, lines 4, 7, 9, 11–13, 17k–17m, or 17z (other than chapter 1 taxes).
100

=== PAGE 101 ===
Instructions for Schedule 3
Additional Credits and Payments
General Instructions
Use Schedule 3 if you have nonrefunda-
ble credits, other than the child tax credit
or the credit for other dependents, or
other payments and refundable credits.
Include the amount on Schedule 3,
line 8, in the amount entered on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 20.
Enter  the  amount  on  Schedule  3,
line 15, on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 31.
Specific Instructions
Line 1
Foreign Tax Credit
If you are a shareholder in a
controlled foreign corporation
and made a section 962 elec-
tion, see the instructions for Forms 1040
and 1040-SR, line 16, for the foreign tax
credit you figured on Form 1118.
If you paid income tax to a foreign
country or U.S. territory, you may be
able to take this credit. Generally, you
must complete and attach Form 1116 to
do so.
Exception.  You don’t have to complete
Form 1116 to take this credit if all of the
following apply.
1.  All of your foreign source gross
income was from interest and dividends
and all of that income and the foreign
tax paid on it were reported to you on
Form  1099-INT,  Form  1099-DIV,  or
Schedule K-3 (or substitute statement).
2.  The total of your foreign taxes
wasn't more than $300 (not more than
$600 if married filing jointly).
3.  You held the stock or bonds on
which  the  dividends  or  interest  were
paid for at least 16 days and weren’t ob-
ligated to pay these amounts to someone
else.
TIP
4.  You aren’t filing Form 4563 or
excluding income from sources within
Puerto Rico.
5.  All of your foreign taxes were:
a.  Legally owed and not eligible for
a refund or reduced tax rate under a tax
treaty, and
b.  Paid to countries that are recog-
nized by the United States and don’t
support terrorism.
For more details on these require-
ments,  see  the  Instructions  for  Form
1116.
Do you meet all five requirements
just listed?
Yes.  Enter on line 1 the smaller of
(a) your total foreign taxes, or (b) the to-
tal of the amounts on Form 1040 or
1040-SR,  line  16,  and  Schedule  2,
line 1a.
No.  See Form 1116 to find out if
you can take the credit and, if you can, if
you have to file Form 1116.
Line 2
Credit for Child and Dependent
Care Expenses
You may be able to take this credit if, in
order to work or look for work, you paid
someone to care for:
•  Your qualifying child under age 13
whom you claim as your dependent,
•  Your disabled spouse or any other
disabled person who couldn't care for
themselves, or
•  Your  child  whom  you  couldn't
claim as a dependent because of the
rules for  Children of divorced or separa-
ted parents  under  Who Qualifies as Your
Dependent , earlier.
For details, use  Tax Topic 602  or see
Form 2441.
Line 3
Education Credits
If you (or your dependent) paid qualified
expenses  in  2024  for  yourself,  your
spouse, or your dependent to enroll in or
attend an eligible educational institution,
you may be able to take an education
credit. See Form 8863 for details. How-
ever, you can't take an education credit
if any of the following applies.
•  You, or your spouse if filing joint-
ly, are claimed as a dependent on some-
one else's (such as your parent's) 2024
tax return.
•  Your filing status is married filing
separately.
•  The  amount  on  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, line 11, is $90,000 or more
($180,000  or  more  if  married  filing
jointly).
•  You, or your spouse, were a non-
resident alien for any part of 2024 unless
your filing status is married filing joint-
ly. See  Nonresident aliens and dual-sta-
tus aliens , earlier.
You may be able to increase an edu-
cation credit if the student chooses to in-
clude all or part of a Pell grant or certain
other scholarships or fellowships in in-
come.
For more information, see Pub. 970;
the  instructions  for  Form  1040  or
1040-SR, line 29; and  IRS.gov/EdCredit .
Line 4
Retirement Savings Contributions
Credit (Saver's Credit)
You may be able to take this credit if
you,  or  your  spouse  if  filing  jointly,
made (a) contributions, other than roll-
over contributions, to a traditional or
Roth IRA; (b) elective deferrals to a
401(k) or 403(b) plan (including desig-
nated Roth contributions) or to a govern-
mental  section  457(b)  plan,  SIMPLE
IRA, or a SEP; (c) voluntary employee
contributions to a qualified retirement
plan (including the federal Thrift Sav-
ings Plan); (d) contributions to a 501(c)
(18)(D) plan; or (e) contributions to an
ABLE account by the designated benefi-
ciary, as defined in section 529A.
However, you can't take the credit if
either of the following applies.
1.  The  amount  on  Form  1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, is more
101

=== PAGE 102 ===
than $38,250 ($57,375 if head of house-
hold; $76,500 if married filing jointly).
2.  The  person(s)  who  made  the
qualified contribution or elective defer-
ral (a) was born after January 1, 2007,
(b) is claimed as a dependent on some-
one else's 2024 tax return, or (c) was a
student (defined next).
You were a student if during any part
of 5 calendar months of 2024, you:
•  Were enrolled as a full-time stu-
dent at a school; or
•  Took a full-time, on-farm training
course given by a school or a state,
county, or local government agency.
A school includes a technical, trade,
or mechanical school. It doesn't include
an  on-the-job  training  course,  corre-
spondence  school,  or  school  offering
courses only through the Internet.
For more details, use  Tax Topic 610
or see Form 8880.
Line 5
Residential Energy Credits
Line  5a—Residential  clean  energy
credit.  If you made energy saving im-
provements to one or more homes that
you used as a residence during 2024,
you may be able to take the residential
clean energy credit. For more informa-
tion, see Form 5695 and its instructions.
Line 5b—Energy efficient home im-
provement credit.  If you made quali-
fied energy efficiency improvements to
your main home located in the United
States in 2024, you may be able to take
the energy efficient home improvement
credit. For more information, see Form
5695 and its instructions.
Condos and co-ops.  If you are a mem-
ber of a condominium management as-
sociation for a condominium you own or
a  tenant-stockholder  in  a  cooperative
housing corporation, you are treated as
having paid your proportionate share of
any costs of such association or corpora-
tion for purposes of these credits.
More  details.  For  details,  see  Form
5695.
Lines 6a Through 6z
Other Nonrefundable Credits
Line  6a.  The  general  business  credit
consists of a number of credits that usu-
ally apply only to individuals who are
partners, shareholders in an S corpora-
tion, self-employed, or who have rental
property. See Form 3800 or Pub. 334.
The net elective payment elec-
tion amount from Form 3800,
Part III, line 6, column (j) is re-
ported on Schedule 3, line 13c.
Line 6b.  Enter any credit for prior year
minimum tax. See Form 8801.
Line 6c.  You may be able to take the
adoption credit if you paid expenses to
adopt a child or you adopted a child with
special needs and the adoption became
final in 2024. See the Instructions for
Form 8839.
Line 6d.  Enter any credit for the elderly
or the disabled. See Schedule R.
Line 6e.  Line 6e has been reserved for
future use.
Line 6f.  Enter the personal use part of
any credit for new clean vehicles. See
Form 8936, Part III.
Line 6g.  Enter any mortgage interest
credit if a state or local government gave
you a mortgage credit certificate. See
Form 8396.
CAUTION
!
Line 6h.  You can't claim the District of
Columbia  first-time  homebuyer  credit
for a home you bought after 2011. You
can claim it only if you have a credit
carryforward  from  2023.  See  Form
8859.
Line 6i.  Enter any qualified electric ve-
hicle credit. You can't claim this credit
for  a  vehicle  placed  in  service  after
2006. You can claim this credit only if
you have an electric vehicle passive ac-
tivity credit carried forward from a prior
year. See Form 8834.
Line 6j.  Enter any alternative fuel vehi-
cle refueling property credit. See Form
8911.
Line 6k.  Enter any credit to holders of
tax credit bonds. See Form 8912.
Line 6l.  Enter the amount from Form
8978, line 14 (relating to partner's audit
liability  under  section  6226).  If  the
amount on Form 8978, line 14, is nega-
tive, complete the following worksheet
to figure the amount to enter on line 6l.
If the amount on Form 8978, line 14, is
positive, see the instructions for Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
Line 6m.  Enter any credit for previous-
ly  owned  clean  vehicles.  See  Form
8936, Part IV.
Line 6z.  Other nonrefundable credits.
Use line 6z to report any nonrefundable
credits not reported elsewhere on your
return or other schedules. List the type
and amount of the credit.
Line 9
Net Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay for
health insurance purchased through the
Marketplace.  You  may  be  eligible  to
claim the premium tax credit if you,
your spouse, or a dependent enrolled in
health  insurance  through  the  Market-
Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 3 (Line 6l)
Complete this worksheet if Form 8978, line 14, is negative.
1.  Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 18  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.
2.  Enter as a positive number the negative amount from Form 8978, line 14  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.
3.  Is the amount on line 1 equal to or more than the amount on line 2?
Yes.  Enter the amount from line 2 on line 6l
No.  Enter the amount from line 1 on line 6l, and subtract line 2 from line 1*  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3.  (  )
*  Use this amount to complete the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 2, line 17z, instructions .
102

=== PAGE 103 ===
place. Eligible individuals may have ad-
vance  payments  of  the  premium  tax
credit made on their behalf directly to
the insurance company. You (or whoever
enrolled  you)  should  have  received
Form  1095-A  from  the  Marketplace
with information about your coverage
and any advance credit payments. Com-
plete  Form  8962  to  determine  the
amount of your premium tax credit, if
any. If the premium tax credit you can
claim exceeds your advance credit pay-
ments, your net premium tax credit will
be shown on Form 8962, line 26. Enter
that amount, if any, on line 9. For more
information,  see  the  Instructions  for
Form 8962.
Line 10
Amount Paid With Request for
Extension To File
If you got an automatic extension of
time to file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR by filing Form 4868 or by
making a payment, enter the amount of
the payment or any amount you paid
with Form 4868. If you paid a fee when
making your payment, don’t include on
line 10 the fee you were charged. Also,
include any amounts paid with Form
2350.
Line 11
Excess Social Security and Tier 1
RRTA Tax Withheld
If you, or your spouse if filing a joint re-
turn, had more than one employer for
2024  and  total  wages  of  more  than
$168,600, too much social security or
tier 1 railroad retirement (RRTA) tax
may have been withheld. You can take a
credit on this line for the amount with-
held in excess of $10,453.20. But if any
one  employer  withheld  more  than
$10,453.20, you can't claim the excess
on your return. The employer should ad-
just the tax for you. If the employer
doesn't  adjust  the  overcollection,  you
can file a claim for refund using Form
843. Figure this amount separately for
you and your spouse.
You can't claim a refund for excess
tier  2  RRTA  tax  on  Form  1040,
1040-SR,  or  1040-NR.  Instead,  use
Form 843.
Line 12
Credit for Federal Tax on Fuels
Enter any credit for federal excise taxes
paid on fuels that are ultimately used for
a nontaxable purpose (for example, an
off-highway business use). Attach Form
4136.
Lines 13a Through 13z
Other Payments or
Refundable Credits
Line 13b
If you are claiming a credit for repay-
ment of amounts you included in your
income in an earlier year because it ap-
peared you had a right to the income,
enter the amount on line 13b. See Pub.
525 for details about this credit.
Line 13c
Enter any net elective payment election
amount from Form 3800, Part III, line 6,
column (j).
Line 13d
If you elected to pay your net 965 tax li-
ability in installments, report the defer-
red  amount  on  line  13d.  Enter  the
amount of net 965 tax liability remain-
ing to be paid in future years.
Line 13z
Other refundable credits.  Use line 13z
to report the credit under section 960(c)
with respect to an excess limitation ac-
count. If an increase in the limitation un-
der section 960(c) is more than your
U.S. income tax reported on Form 1116,
Part III, line 20, the amount of the ex-
cess is deemed an overpayment of tax
and can be claimed on line 13z as a re-
fundable credit. See section 960(c)(5).
Enter “960(c)” and the amount of the
credit. See section 960(c) for more infor-
mation about the circumstances under
which an excess in limitation arises. Al-
so, see the instructions for Form 1116,
Part III, line 22 for your increase in limi-
tation.
Also  use  line  13z  to  report  the
amount of U.S. tax allocable to the U.S.
Virgin Islands. Enter “Form 8689” and
the amount paid.
103

=== PAGE 104 ===
Tax Topics
You  can  read  these  Tax  Topics  at
IRS.gov/TaxTopics .
List of Tax Topics
All topics are also available in Spanish
(and most topics are available in
Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, and
Russian).
Topic
No.  Subject
IRS help available
101  IRS services—Volunteer tax
assistance, outreach programs, and
identity theft
102  Tax assistance for individuals with
disabilities
103  Tax help for small businesses and
the self-employed
104  Taxpayer Advocate Service—Your
voice at the IRS
105  Armed Forces tax information
107  Tax relief in disaster situations
IRS procedures
151  Your appeal rights
154  Form W-2 and Form 1099-R (What
to do if incorrect or not received)
155  Obtaining forms and publications
156  How to get a transcript or copy of
your tax return
157  Change your address—How to
notify the IRS
158  Paying your taxes and ensuring
proper credit of payments
159  How to get a wage and income
transcript or copy of Form W-2
161  Returning an erroneous
refund—Paper check or direct
deposit
Collection
201  The collection process
202  Tax payment options
203  Reduced refund
204  Offers in compromise
206  Dishonored payments
Alternative filing methods
253  Substitute tax forms
254  How to choose a tax return preparer
255  Signing your return electronically
General information
301  When, how, and where to file
303  Checklist of common errors when
preparing your tax return
304  Extensions of time to file your tax
return
305  Recordkeeping
306  Penalty for underpayment of
estimated tax
307  Backup withholding
308  Amended returns
Topic
No.  Subject
309  Roth IRA contributions
310  Coverdell education savings
accounts
311  Power of attorney information
312  Disclosure authorizations
313  Qualified tuition programs (QTPs)
Which forms to file
356  Decedents
Types of income
401  Wages and salaries
403  Interest received
404  Dividends
407  Business income
409  Capital gains and losses
410  Pensions and annuities
411  Pensions—The general rule and the
simplified method
412  Lump-sum distributions
413  Rollovers from retirement plans
414  Rental income and expenses
415  Renting residential and vacation
property
416  Farming and fishing income
417  Earnings for clergy
418  Unemployment compensation
419  Gambling income and losses
420  Bartering income
421  Scholarships, fellowship grants,
and other grants
423  Social security and equivalent
railroad retirement benefits
424  401(k) plans
425  Passive activities—Losses and
credits
427  Stock options
429  Traders in securities (Information
for Form 1040 or 1040-SR filers)
430  Receipt of stock in a
demutualization
431  Canceled debt—Is it taxable or
not?
432  Form 1099-A (Acquisition or
Abandonment of Secured Property)
and Form 1099-C (Cancellation of
Debt)
Adjustments to income
451  Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs)
452  Alimony and Separate Maintenance
453  Bad debt deduction
455  Moving expenses for members of
the Armed Forces
456  Student loan interest deduction
458  Educator expense deduction
Itemized deductions
501  Should I itemize?
Topic
No.  Subject
502  Medical and dental expenses
503  Deductible taxes
504  Home mortgage points
505  Interest expense
506  Charitable contributions
509  Business use of home
510  Business use of car
511  Business travel expenses
513  Work-related education expenses
515  Casualty, disaster, and theft losses
Tax computation
551  Standard deduction
552  Tax and credits figured by the IRS
553  Tax on a child's investment and
other unearned income (Kiddie tax)
554  Self-employment tax
556  Alternative minimum tax
557  Additional tax on early
distributions from traditional and
Roth IRAs
558  Additional tax on early
distributions from retirement plans
other than IRAs
559  Net Investment Income Tax
560  Additional Medicare Tax
Tax credits
601  Earned income credit
602  Child and dependent care credit
608  Excess social security and RRTA
tax withheld
610  Retirement savings contributions
credit
611  Repayment of the first-time
homebuyer credit
612  The premium tax credit
IRS notices
651  Notices—What to do
652  Notice of underreported
income—CP2000
653  IRS notices and bills, penalties, and
interest charges
654  Understanding your CP75 or
CP75A Notice Request for
Supporting Documentation
Basis of assets, depreciation, and
sale of assets
701  Sale of your home
703  Basis of assets
704  Depreciation
705  Installment sales
Employer tax information
751  Social security and Medicare
withholding rates
752  Filing Forms W-2 and W-3
104

=== PAGE 105 ===
List of Tax Topics
(Continued)
Topic
No.  Subject
753  Form W-4—Employee's
Withholding Certificate
756  Employment taxes for household
employees
757  Forms 941 and 944—Deposit
requirements
758  Form 941—Employer's Quarterly
Federal Tax Return and Form
944—Employer's Annual Federal
Tax Return
759  Form 940—Employer's Annual
Federal Unemployment (FUTA)
Tax Return—Filing and deposit
requirements
760  Form 943—Reporting and deposit
requirements for agricultural
employers
761  Tips—Withholding and reporting
762  Independent contractor vs.
employee
Topic
No.  Subject
763  The Affordable Care Act
Electronic media filers—1099
series and related information
returns
801  Who must file information returns
electronically
802  Applying to file information returns
electronically
803  Electronic filing waivers and
exemptions and filing extensions
804  FIRE system test files and
combined federal/state filing
(CF/SF) program
Tax information for U.S. resident
aliens and citizens living abroad
851  Resident and nonresident aliens
856  Foreign tax credit
857  Individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN)
858  Alien tax clearance
Topic
No.  Subject
Tax information for residents of
Puerto Rico
901  Is a person with income from
Puerto Rico required to file a U.S.
federal income tax return?
902  Credits and deductions for
taxpayers with Puerto Rican source
income exempt from U.S. tax
903  U.S. employment tax in Puerto
Rico
105

=== PAGE 106 ===
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice
The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of
1998, the Privacy Act of 1974, and the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 require
that when we ask you for information we
must first tell you our legal right to ask
for the information, why we are asking
for it, and how it will be used. We must
also tell you what could happen if we do
not receive it and whether your response
is voluntary, required to obtain a benefit,
or mandatory under the law.
This notice applies to all records and
other material (in paper or electronic for-
mat) you file with us, including this tax
return. It also applies to any questions we
need to ask you so we can complete, cor-
rect, or process your return; figure your
tax; and collect tax, interest, or penalties.
Our legal right to ask for information
is Internal Revenue Code sections 6001,
6011, and 6012(a), and their regulations.
They say that you must file a return or
statement with us for any tax you are lia-
ble for. Your response is mandatory under
these  sections.  Code  section  6109  re-
quires you to provide your identifying
number on the return. This is so we know
who you are, and can process your return
and other papers. You must fill in all parts
of the tax form that apply to you. But you
do not have to check the boxes for the
Presidential Election Campaign Fund or
for the third-party designee. You also do
not have to provide your daytime phone
number or email address.
You are not required to provide the in-
formation requested on a form that is sub-
ject to the Paperwork Reduction Act un-
less the form displays a valid OMB con-
trol number. Books or records relating to
a form or its instructions must be retained
as long as their contents may become ma-
terial in the administration of any Internal
Revenue law.
We ask for tax return information to
carry  out  the  tax  laws  of  the  United
States. We need it to figure and collect the
right amount of tax.
If you do not file a return, do not pro-
vide the information we ask for, or pro-
vide fraudulent information, you may be
charged penalties and be subject to crimi-
nal prosecution. We may also have to dis-
allow the exemptions, exclusions, credits,
deductions, or adjustments shown on the
tax return. This could make the tax higher
or delay any refund. Interest may also be
charged.
Generally, tax returns and return infor-
mation are confidential, as stated in Code
section  6103.  However,  Code  section
6103 allows or requires the Internal Reve-
nue Service to disclose or give the infor-
mation shown on your tax return to others
as described in the Code. For example,
we may disclose your tax information to
the Department of Justice to enforce the
tax laws, both civil and criminal, and to
cities, states, the District of Columbia,
and U.S. commonwealths or territories to
carry out their tax laws. We may disclose
your tax information to the Department of
Treasury and contractors for tax adminis-
tration purposes; and to other persons as
necessary to obtain information needed to
determine the amount of or to collect the
tax you owe. We may disclose your tax
information to the Comptroller General of
the United States to permit the Comptrol-
ler General to review the Internal Reve-
nue Service. We may disclose your tax in-
formation  to  committees  of  Congress;
federal,  state,  and  local  child  support
agencies; and to other federal agencies for
the purposes of determining entitlement
for benefits or the eligibility for and the
repayment of loans. We may also disclose
this information to other countries under a
tax treaty, to federal and state agencies to
enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or
to federal law enforcement and intelli-
gence agencies to combat terrorism.
Please keep this notice with your re-
cords. It may help you if we ask you for
other information. If you have questions
about the rules for filing and giving infor-
mation, please call or visit any Internal
Revenue Service office.
We Welcome Comments on
Forms
We try to create forms and instructions
that can be easily understood. Often this
is difficult to do because our tax laws are
very complex. For some people with in-
come mostly from wages, filling in the
forms is easy. For others who have busi-
nesses, pensions, stocks, rental income, or
other investments, it is more difficult.
If you have suggestions for making
these forms simpler, we would be happy
to hear from you. You can send us com-
ments through  IRS.gov/FormsComments .
Or you can send your comments to Inter-
nal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Pub-
lications Division, 1111 Constitution Ave.
NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Don’t send your return to this address. In-
stead, see the addresses at the end of these
instructions.
Although we can't respond individual-
ly to each comment received, we do ap-
preciate your feedback and will consider
your  comments  as  we  revise  our  tax
forms and instructions.
Estimates of Taxpayer
Burden
The following table shows burden esti-
mates based on current statutory require-
ments as of December 1, 2024, for tax-
payers  filing  a  2024  Form  1040  or
1040-SR  tax  return.  Time  spent  and
out-of-pocket costs are presented sepa-
rately. Time burden is broken out by tax-
payer activity, with recordkeeping repre-
senting  the  largest  component.
Out-of-pocket costs include any expenses
incurred by taxpayers to prepare and sub-
mit their tax returns. Examples include
tax  return  preparation  and  submission
fees, postage and photocopying costs, and
tax  return  preparation  software  costs.
While these estimates don’t include bur-
den associated with post-filing activities,
IRS operational data indicate that elec-
tronically prepared and filed returns have
fewer arithmetic errors, implying lower
post-filing burden.
Reported time and cost burdens are na-
tional averages and don’t necessarily re-
flect a “typical” case. Most taxpayers ex-
perience lower than average burden, with
taxpayer burden varying considerably by
taxpayer type. For instance, the estimated
average time burden for all taxpayers fil-
ing a Form 1040 or 1040-SR is 13 hours,
with an average cost of $290 per return.
This average includes all associated forms
and schedules, across all tax return prepa-
ration methods and taxpayer activities.
Within this estimate, there is signifi-
cant variation in taxpayer activity. For ex-
ample, nonbusiness taxpayers are expec-
ted to have an average burden of about 8
hours and $160, while business taxpayers
are expected to have an average burden of
about 24 hours and $620. Similarly, tax
return  preparation  fees  and  other
out-of-pocket costs vary extensively de-
106

=== PAGE 107 ===
pending on the tax situation of the taxpay-
er, the type of software or professional
preparer used, and the geographic loca-
tion.
For more information on taxpayer bur-
den see Pub. 5743. If you have comments
concerning the time and cost estimates
below, you can contact us at either one of
the addresses shown under  We Welcome
Comments on Forms .
Estimated Average Taxpayer Burden for Individuals by Activity
Average Burden
Average Time (Hours)  Average
Cost
(Dollars)**
Type of Taxpayer
Percentage
of Returns
Total
Time*
Record-
keeping
Tax
Planning
Form
Completion
and
Submission
All
Other  
.
 
.
 
.
 
.
 
.
 
.
 
.
 
.
All taxpayers  . . . . . . . . . .  100%  13  5  3  4  1  $290
Type of taxpayer
Nonbusiness***  . . . . .  71%  8  3  1  3  1  160
Business***  . . . . . . .  29%  24  11  5  6  2  620
*Detail may not add to total time due to rounding.
**Dollars rounded to the nearest $10.
***You are considered a “business” filer if you file one or more of the following with Form 1040 or 1040-SR: Schedule C, E, or F or Form 2106. You are
considered a “nonbusiness” filer if you don’t file any of those schedules or forms with Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
107

=== PAGE 108 ===
Major Categories of Federal Income and Outlays for Fiscal Year 2023
Income  Outlays*
Income and Outlays.  These pie charts show the relative sizes of the major categories of federal income and outlays for fiscal year 2023.
Social security, Medicare,
and unemployment and other
retirement taxes
26%
Personal income
taxes
35%
Borrowing to
cover deficit
28%
Corporate
income taxes
7%
Excise, customs,
estate, gift, and
miscellaneous taxes
4%
*Numbers may not total to 100% due to rounding.
Social
programs
4
23%
Physical,
human, and
community
development  
3
7%
Net
interest
on the
debt
11%
Social security,
Medicare, and other
retirement 1
39%
National defense,
veterans, and foreign
affairs
2
19%
Law
enforcement
and general
government
2%
On or before the first Monday in February
of each year, the President is required by
law to submit to the Congress a budget
proposal for the fiscal year that begins the
following October. The budget plan sets
forth  the  President's  proposed  receipts,
spending, and the surplus or deficit for
the federal government. The plan includes
recommendations for new legislation as
well as recommendations to change, elim-
inate, and add programs. After receipt of
the President's proposal, the Congress re-
views the proposal and makes changes. It
first passes a budget resolution setting its
own targets for receipts, outlays, and sur-
plus or deficit. Next, individual spending
and revenue bills that are consistent with
the  goals  of  the  budget  resolution  are
enacted.
In fiscal year 2023 (which began on
October 1, 2022, and ended on September
30, 2023, federal income was $4.441 tril-
lion  and  outlays  were  $6.135  trillion,
leaving a deficit of $1.694 trillion.
Footnotes for Certain Federal
Outlays
1.  Social  security,  Medicare,  and
other retirement:  These programs pro-
vide income support for the retired and
disabled and medical care for the elderly.
2.  National defense, veterans, and
foreign affairs:  About 13% of outlays
were to equip, modernize, and pay our
armed forces and to fund national defense
activities;  about  5%  were  for  veterans
benefits and services; and about 1% were
for international activities, including mili-
tary and economic assistance to foreign
countries and the maintenance of U.S.
embassies abroad.
3.  Physical, human, and communi-
ty development:  These outlays were for
agriculture;  natural  resources;  environ-
ment; transportation; aid for elementary
and secondary education and direct assis-
tance to college students; job training; de-
posit insurance, commerce and housing
credit, and community development; and
space, energy, and general science pro-
grams.
4.  Social programs:  About 17% of
total outlays were for Medicaid, Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program (for-
merly food stamps), temporary assistance
for needy families, supplemental security
income, and related programs; and 6% for
health  research  and  public  health  pro-
grams, unemployment compensation, as-
sisted housing, and social services.
Note.  The percentages shown here exclude undistributed offsetting receipts, which were $132 billion in fiscal year 2023. In the budget, these receipts are offset against spending in figuring the outlay totals shown above.
These receipts are for the U.S. Government's share of its employee retirement programs, rents and royalties on the Outer Continental Shelf, and proceeds from the sale of assets.
108

=== PAGE 109 ===
731,200
2024
Tax Rate
Schedules
The Tax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see the tax rate that applies
to all levels of taxable income. Don’t use them to figure your tax. Instead,
see the instructions for line 16.
Schedule Z— If your filing status is  Head of household
Schedule X— If your filing status is  Single
The tax is: If your taxable
income is:  
of the
amount
over—
But not
over— Over—
Schedule Y-2— If your filing status is  Married filing separately
Schedule Y-1— If your filing status is  Married filing jointly  or  Qualifying surviving spouse
The tax is: If your taxable
income is:  
of the
amount
over—
But not
over— Over—
The tax is: If your taxable
income is:  
of the
amount
over—
But not
over— Over—
The tax is: If your taxable
income is:  
of the
amount
over—
But not
over— Over—
CAUTION
$0
11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
$11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
243,725
$0
11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
$0
23,200
94,300
201,050
383,900
$0
11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
$0
16,550
63,100
100,500
191,950
$23,200
94,300
201,050
383,900
487,450
$11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
243,725
$16,550
63,100
100,500
191,950
243,700
$0
23,200
94,300
201,050
383,900
$0
11,600
47,150
100,525
191,950
$0
16,550
63,100
100,500
191,950
10%
$1,160.00 + 12%
5,426.00 + 22%
17,168.50 + 24%
39,110.50 + 32%
10%
$2,320.00 + 12%
10,852.00 + 22%
34,337.00 + 24%
78,221.00 + 32%
10%
$1,160.00 + 12%
5,426.00 + 22%
17,168.50 + 24%
39,110.50 + 32%
10%
$1,655.00 + 12%
7,241.00 + 22%
15,469.00 + 24%
37,417.00 + 32%
487,450  731,200  487,450 111,357.00 + 35%
731,200  196,669.50 + 37%
243,725  609,350  243,725
609,350
55,678.50 + 35%
183,647.25 + 37% 609,350
243,725
365,600
365,600  243,725
365,600
55,678.50 + 35%
98,334.75 + 37%
243,700
609,350
609,350  243,700
609,350
53,977.00 + 35%
181,954.50 + 37%
109

=== PAGE 110 ===
Index to Instructions
A
ABLE account  87 ,  97
Additional Medicare Tax  99
Additions to tax  96
Address change  12
Adjusted gross income  31
Adoption credit  102
Adoption taxpayer identification number  20
Aliens  8
Alimony paid  90
Alimony received  85
Alternative minimum tax  97
Amended return  79
Amount you owe  59 - 61
Annuities  27 - 30
Archer MSAs  87 ,  97 ,  100
Artists  89
Assistance  ( See  Tax help)
Attachments to the return  63
Awards  87
B
Bankruptcy cases, chapter 11  23
Bequests  88
Blindness  16 ,  34
Business income or loss  85
C
Canceled debt  87
Capital gain distributions  31
Capital gain or loss  31
Child and dependent care expenses, credit
for  101
Child custody  20
Child support  88
Child tax credits  17 ,  57
Child's requirement to file  9 ,  10
Community property states  23
Contributions to reduce debt held by the
public  78
Corrective distributions  25
D
Daycare center expenses  101
Death of a taxpayer  12
Death of spouse  12
Dependent care benefits  24
Dependents  17
Standard deduction  34
Direct deposit of refund  58 ,  59
Disability expenses  87
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork
Reduction Act Notice  106
Dividends :
Nondividend distributions  26
Ordinary dividends  26
Qualified dividends  25 ,  36
Divorced parents  20
Dual-status aliens  8 ,  13
E
Earned income credit (EIC)  38
Combat pay, nontaxable  40
Education :
Credits  57 ,  101
Expenses  57 ,  101
Recapture of education credits  33
Savings accounts  88 ,  97
Educator expenses  89
Elderly persons :
Credit for  102
Standard deduction  34
Electric vehicles  102
Electronic filing (e-file)  58 ,  59 ,  62 ,  63
Estimated tax  37 ,  61 ,  78
Excess deferrals  24
Excess social security and tier 1 RRTA tax
withheld  103
Extension of time to file  8 ,  103
F
Filing requirements  11
Filing status, which box to check  13 - 15
Foreign accounts and trusts  23
Foreign tax credit  101
Foreign-source income  23
Form W-2  25
Free Ways to File Your Taxes  7
G
Gambling  85
General business credit  102
Gifts  88
Golden parachute payments  100
H
Head of household  14
Health insurance deduction, self-employed  89
Health insurance premiums, credit for  102
Health savings accounts  87 ,  89 ,  97 ,  99
Homebuyer credit, first-time  99
Household employment taxes  97
How to comment on forms  106
I
Identity Protection PIN  62
Identity theft  78
Income  23 - 85
Income tax withholding (federal)  37 ,  78
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs)
Contributions to  91 ,  92
Credit for contributions to  101
Distributions from  26
Nondeductible contributions to  26 ,  91 ,  92
Individual taxpayer identification numbers  13
Injured spouse  57
Innocent spouse relief  77
Installment payments  60
Interest income
Tax-exempt  25
Taxable  25
Interest on taxes  82
Investment income, tax on  99
Itemized deductions or standard
deduction  31 - 34
ITINs for aliens  13
J
Jury duty pay  87
L
Life insurance  88
Line instructions for Forms 1040 and
1040-SR  63
Living abroad, U.S. citizens and resident
aliens  8 ,  23
Long-term care insurance  89
Lump-sum distributions  30
M
Market discount on bonds  25
Married persons :
Filing joint returns  13
Filing separate returns  14
Living apart  15
Medical insurance premiums, credit for  102
Medicare tax, additional  99
Mortgage interest credit  102
Moving expenses  89
Multiple support agreement  21
N
Name change  12
Net Investment Income Tax  99
Net operating loss  85
Nonresident aliens  8 ,  13
O
Offsets  57
Other income  85 ,  87
Other taxes  99
P
Parents, divorced or separated  20
Pay taxes electronically  59
Payments  37 - 103
Penalty
Early withdrawal of savings  90
Estimated tax  61
Others (including late filing and late
payment)  82
Penalty on early withdrawal of savings  90
Pensions and annuities  27 - 30
Premium tax credit  102
Presidential election $3 check-off  13
Private delivery services  9
Prizes  87
Public debt, gift to reduce the  78
Publications  ( See  Tax help)
Q
Qualified business income deduction  33
Qualified dividends  25 ,  36
Qualified dividends and capital gain tax
worksheet  36
Qualified retirement plans, deduction for  89
Qualified tuition program earnings  88 ,  97
R
Railroad retirement benefits :
Treated as a pension  27
Treated as social security  30
Records, how long to keep  78
Refund  57 - 59
Refund information  83
Refund offset  57
Refunds, credits, or offsets of state and local
income taxes  84
110

=== PAGE 111 ===
Reservists, expenses of  89
Resident aliens  8
Residential energy efficient property credit  102
Retirement plan deduction, self-employed  89
Retirement savings contributions credit  101
Rollovers  26 ,  30
Roth IRAs  26 ,  91
Rounding off to whole dollars  23
S
Saver's credit  101
Self-employment tax :
Deduction for part of  89
Separated parents  20
Signing your return  62
Single person  13
Social security and equivalent railroad
retirement benefits  30 - 32
Social security number  12 ,  21
Standard deduction or itemized
deductions  31 - 34
State and local income taxes, taxable refunds,
credits, or offsets of  84
Statutory employees  25
Student loan interest deduction  94
Expenses  93
Surviving spouse, qualifying  15
T
Tax and credits  31 - 99
Figured by the IRS  33 ,  41
Other taxes :
Alternative minimum tax  97
IRAs and other tax-favored accounts  97
Lump-sum distributions  30
Recapture  99
Tax computation worksheet  76
Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE)  7
Tax help  79
Tax rate schedules  109
Tax table  64 - 75
Tax Topics  104
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)  4
Third party designee  61
Tip income  97
Tuition program earnings  88 ,  97
U
Unemployment compensation  85
V
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program
(VITA)  7
W
Wages  23
What if you can't pay?  60
What's new  6
When and where should you file?  8
Who must file  9 ,  10
Who should file  8
Winnings, prizes, gambling, and lotteries (other
income)  85
Withholding, federal income tax  37 ,  78
111

=== PAGE 112 ===
Your Rights
as a Taxpayer
Learn more at  IRS.gov/TaxpayerRights
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights
1. The Right to Be Informed
Taxpayers have the right to know what they need to do to
comply with the tax laws. They are entitled to clear
explanations of the laws and IRS procedures in all tax forms,
instructions, publications, notices, and correspondence. They
have the right to be informed of IRS decisions about their tax
accounts and to receive clear explanations of the outcomes.
2. The Right to Quality Service
Taxpayers have the right to receive prompt, courteous, and
professional assistance in their dealings with the IRS, to be
spoken to in a way they can easily understand, to receive clear
and easily understandable communications from the IRS, and
to speak to a supervisor about inadequate service.
3. The Right to Pay No More than the
Correct Amount of Tax
Taxpayers have the right to pay only the amount of tax legally
due, including interest and penalties, and to have the IRS
apply all tax payments properly.
4. The Right to Challenge the IRS’s Position
and Be Heard
Taxpayers have the right to raise objections and provide
additional documentation in response to formal IRS actions or
proposed actions, to expect that the IRS will consider their
timely objections and documentation promptly and fairly, and
to receive a response if the IRS does not agree with their
position.
5. The Right to Appeal an IRS Decision in an
Independent Forum
Taxpayers are entitled to a fair and impartial administrative
appeal of most IRS decisions, including many penalties, and
have the right to receive a written response regarding the IRS
Independent Office of Appeals’ decision. Taxpayers generally
have the right to take their cases to court.
6. The Right to Finality
Taxpayers have the right to know the maximum amount of
time they have to challenge the IRS’s position as well as the
maximum amount of time the IRS has to audit a particular tax
year or collect a tax debt. Taxpayers have the right to know
when the IRS has finished an audit.
7. The Right to Privacy
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any IRS inquiry,
examination, or enforcement action will comply with the law
and be no more intrusive than necessary, and will respect all
due process rights, including search and seizure protections,
and will provide, where applicable, a collection due process
hearing.
8. The Right to Confidentiality
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any information they
provide to the IRS will not be disclosed unless authorized by
the taxpayer or by law. Taxpayers have the right to expect
appropriate action will be taken against employees, return
preparers, and others who wrongfully use or disclose taxpayer
return information.
9. The Right to Retain Representation
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized representative
of their choice to represent them in their dealings with the
IRS. Taxpayers have the right to seek assistance from a Low
Income Taxpayer Clinic if they cannot afford representation.
10. The Right to a Fair and Just Tax System
Taxpayers have the right to expect the tax system to consider
facts and circumstances that might affect their underlying
liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to provide information timely.
Taxpayers have the right to receive assistance from the
Taxpayer Advocate Service if they are experiencing financial
difficulty or if the IRS has not resolved their tax issues properly
and timely through its normal channels.
112

=== PAGE 113 ===
Where Do You
File?
Mail  your  return  to  the  address  shown
below that applies to you. If you want to use
a  private  delivery  service,  see  Private
Delivery  Services  under  Filing
Requirements,  earlier.
TIP
Envelopes without enough postage will be
returned to you by the post office. Your
envelope may need additional postage if it
contains  more  than  five  pages  or  is
oversized (for example, it is over  1 / 4 ″ thick).
Also include your complete return address.
CAUTION
!
Only the U.S. Postal Service can deliver to P.O. boxes. You can't use a private delivery service to make tax payments
required to be sent to a P.O. box.
THEN use this address if you:
IF you live in...
Are requesting a refund or
are not enclosing a check or
money order...
Are enclosing a check or
money order...
Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214
Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas,
Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota,
Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Ogden, UT 84201-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
Arizona, New Mexico
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
Arkansas, Oklahoma
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia,
West Virginia, Wisconsin
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214
Pennsylvania
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
A foreign country, U.S. territory*, or use an APO or FPO
address, or file Form 2555 or 4563, or are a dual-status
alien
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0215
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1303
Charlotte, NC 28201-1303
*If you live in American Samoa, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands, see Pub. 570.
113