

=== PAGE 1 ===
Publication 54
(Rev. December 2025)
Tax Guide for
U.S. Citizens
and Resident
Aliens Abroad
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
•  I R S . g o v  (English)
•  I R S . g o v / S p a n i s h  (Español)
•  I R S . g o v / C h i n e s e  ( 中文 )
•  I R S . g o v / K o r e a n  ( 한국어 )
•  I R S . g o v / R u s s i a n  (P усский)
•  I R S . g o v / V i e t n a m e s e  (Tiếng Việt)
Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub.  54,  such  as  legislation  enacted  after  it  was
published, go to  IRS.gov/Pub54 .
What's New
Tax law changes that impact 2025 and subsequent
tax years.  Public Law 119-21, the One Big Beautiful Bill
Act, was signed into law on July 4, 2025. The law contains
several provisions that impact Form 1040 and other rela-
ted forms. Some of the changes include:
•  Standard deduction,
•  Itemized deductions,
•  Moving expenses,
•  Casualty and theft losses, and
•  Social security number (SSN) requirement to claim
child tax and other credits, and deductions.
For information on tax law changes for 2025 and subse-
quent years, go to the Form 1040 webpage, available at
IRS.gov/Form1040 .  Specific  information  regarding  the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act is also available at  IRS.gov/
Newsroom/One-Big-Beautiful-Bill-Act-Tax-Deductions-
For-Working-Americans-And-Seniors .
Direct deposit and electronic payments.  If you have
access to U.S. banking services or electronic payment
systems, you should use direct deposit for any refunds.
The IRS also recommends paying electronically whenever
possible. Options to pay electronically include using your
bank account with Direct Pay, your debit or credit card,
your digital wallet, or your IRS Online Account. Go to
IRS.gov/Payments  to see all your payment options.
Continuous-use  revision.  Publication  54  has  been
converted from an annual revision to a continuous use re-
vision in tax year 2025. Subsequent revisions will be made
on an as needed basis.
The annual inflation adjusted amounts for items such
as standard deduction, foreign earned income exclusion,
and individual retirement arrangement (IRA) contribution
limits have been removed throughout the publication.
For information on specific issues, please see the web-
pages and instructions on IRS.gov for the specific product.
For annual adjusted inflation amounts:
1.  Go to  IRS.gov/InflationAdjustment ,
2.  Click on the link for the IRS tax inflation adjustments
for your tax year,
3.  Click on the Revenue Procedure for the tax year, and
4.  Look for the section that applies to your issue.
Mortgage and student loan forgiveness relief expires
in 2025.  The exclusion from income of discharged mort-
gage debt for qualified principal residence indebtedness
Publication 54 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 14999E
Jan 8, 2026  Department of the Treasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov

=== PAGE 2 ===
and qualified student loan debt under section 108(f)(5) ex-
pires on December 31, 2025.
New Forms 8964-ELE and 8964-TRA.  Form 8964-ELE,
Section 987 Elections, and Form 8964-TRA, Section 987
Transition Information, are new forms for tax year 2025.
The forms are filed by taxpayers that own qualified busi-
ness units (QBUs) that have reporting requirements under
section 987. See  Other Forms You May Have To File , in
Chapter 1, for additional information.
International practice units are available for help with
questions and issues.  The IRS' Large Business and In-
ternational division has created practice units that are de-
signed to provide additional information and answer ques-
tions for various issues unique to international individuals
and businesses. The practice units cover specific topics,
provide overviews and analyses of issues, resources that
include applicable law, related forms, examples, related
practice units, and additional resources.
Topics include residency; computations of income, de-
ductions, and exclusions; sourcing of income; foreign cur-
rency issues; foreign earned income exclusion/housing
deduction; foreign tax credit; tax credits; taxes; interna-
tional information returns and penalties; and statutes. You
can  access  the  practice  units  by  going  to  IRS.gov/
Businesses/Corporations/Practice-Units .
Special relief for terrorist attacks in Israel, Gaza, and
the West Bank.  Taxpayers who live or have a business
in Israel, Gaza, or the West Bank, and certain other tax-
payers affected by the terrorist attacks in the State of Is-
rael have until September 30, 2025, to file and pay. This
includes all 2023 and 2024 returns. Please note payments
on the 2023 tax year returns are not eligible for the addi-
tional time because they were originally due prior to the
terrorist attacks. For additional information, see  IRS.gov/
Newsroom/IRS-Announces-New-Relief-For-Taxpayers-
Affected-By-Terrorist-Attacks-In-Israel-2023-And-2024-
Returns-And-Payments-Are-Now-Due-Sept-30-2025-
Other-Relief-Available .
On September 30, 2025, the Service announced that
due to the ongoing conflict in Israel, the agency is provid-
ing additional tax relief to affected individuals and busi-
nesses, postponing until September 30, 2026, a wide
range of deadlines for filing federal returns, making tax
payments, and performing other time-sensitive tax-related
actions.  For  additional  information,  see  IRS.gov/
Newsroom/IRS-Announces-New-Relief-For-Eligible-
Taxpayers-Affected-By-Ongoing-Events-In-Israel-Due-
Dates-For-Eligible-Returns-And-Payments-May-Be-
Postponed-To-Sept-30-2026-Additional-Relief-May-Be-
Available .
Reminders
Denial or revocation of U.S. passport.  The IRS is re-
quired to notify the State Department of taxpayers certified
as owing a seriously delinquent tax debt. The State De-
partment is generally prohibited from issuing or renewing
a passport to a taxpayer with seriously delinquent tax
debt.
If you currently have a valid passport, the State Depart-
ment may revoke your passport or limit your ability to
travel. Additional information on passport certification is
available at  IRS.gov/Passports .
Individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) re-
newal.  An ITIN for a nonresident alien spouse or de-
pendent used on a prior-year income tax return may re-
quire renewal. For more information, go to  IRS.gov/ITIN .
Digital assets.  You may have to report transactions with
digital assets such as cryptocurrency and non-fungible to-
kens (NFTs) on your tax return. Income from digital assets
is taxable. For more information on digital assets, go to
IRS.gov/DigitalAssets .
Figuring tax on income not excluded.  If you claim the
foreign earned income exclusion, the foreign housing ex-
clusion, or both, you must figure the tax on your nonexclu-
ded income using the tax rates that would have applied
had you not claimed the exclusions. See the instructions
for Form 1040 and Form 1040-SR, available at  IRS.gov/
Form1040  and complete the Foreign Earned Income Tax
Worksheet to figure the amount of tax to enter on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. If you must attach Form 6251,
Alternative  Minimum  Tax—Individuals,  available  at
IRS.gov/Form6251 , to your return, use the Foreign Earned
Income Tax Worksheet provided in the instructions for
Form 6251.
People who failed to meet eligibility requirements be-
cause of adverse conditions in a foreign country.
Section 911(d)(4) of the Code provides that an individual
will be treated as a qualified individual with respect to a
period in which the individual was a bona fide resident of,
or was present in a foreign country if the individual left the
country during a specified period. The Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, deter-
mines each year the list of countries that individuals were
required to leave because of war, civil unrest, or similar
adverse condition that precluded the normal conduct of
business. You must establish that but for those conditions
you could reasonably have been expected to meet the eli-
gibility requirements. Early each year, the IRS publishes
an Internal Revenue Bulletin with a list of the foreign coun-
tries for which the minimum time requirements are waived
and the effective dates. The Internal Revenue Bulletins are
located at  IRS.gov/IRB .
The VSO Equal Tax Treatment (VETT) Act adds cer-
tain organizations to the list of deductible charitable
contributions  for  members  of  the  Armed  Forces.
The VETT Act, enacted December 12, 2024, amends sec-
tion 170(c) to include section 501(c)(19) organizations
that are federally chartered corporations. The amendment
applies to tax years beginning after December 12, 2024.
Find information about an organization's tax-exempt sta-
tus and filings by using the online search tool, available at
IRS.gov/TEOS .
For additional information on claiming charitable contri-
butions, see Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions, available
at  IRS.gov/Pub526 .
Other forms you may have to file.  If you had foreign fi-
nancial assets and/or financial accounts, entered the U.S.
2  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 3 ===
with $10,000 or more in currency, have ownership inter-
ests in foreign entities, foreign trusts, or qualified business
units (QBUs), received gifts from foreign persons, or gave
up your U.S. citizenship or residency, you may have addi-
tional forms to file. See  Other Forms You May Have To File
in chapter 1.
U.S.-Hungary income tax treaty.  On July 8, 2022, the
United States terminated the income tax treaty between
the government of the United States and the government
of the Hungarian People's Republic. The termination of
the treaty is effective for withholding taxes on payments
made on or after January 1, 2024, and is effective for tax
years beginning on or after January 1, 2024, for any other
taxes.
U.S.-Chile income tax treaty.  The tax treaty between
the United States and Chile entered into force on Decem-
ber 19, 2023. The treaty is effective for withholding taxes
at source on payments made on or after February 1, 2024,
and is effective for tax years beginning on or after January
1, 2024, for any other taxes.
U.S.-Russia income tax treaty.  On July 1, 2024, the
United States provided formal notice to the Russian Fed-
eration to confirm the suspension of paragraph 4 of Article
1, and Articles 5–21 and 23 of the income tax treaty be-
tween the United States and the Russian Federation, as
well as the accompanying Protocol, by mutual agreement.
The suspension of the treaty is effective both for taxes
withheld at source and in respect of other taxes on August
16, 2024. The suspension will continue until otherwise de-
cided by the two governments.
U.S.-U.S.S.R. income tax treaty that relates to Bela-
rus.  On December 17, 2024, the United States provided
formal notice to the Republic of Belarus to confirm the
suspension of the operation of paragraph 1, subparagraph
(g), of Article III of the Convention between the United
States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics on Matters of Taxation, with related letters, by mu-
tual agreement. The suspension is effective December 17,
2024, until December 31, 2026, and will continue until oth-
erwise decided by the two governments.
Photographs of missing children.  The IRS is a proud
partner with the  National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC) . Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
ges that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recog-
nize a child.
Introduction
This publication discusses special tax rules for U.S. citi-
zens and resident aliens who live and work abroad.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, your world-
wide income is generally subject to U.S. income tax, re-
gardless of where you are living. Also, you are subject to
the same income tax filing requirements that apply to U.S.
citizens or resident aliens living in the United States.
Expatriation tax provisions apply to U.S. citizens who have
renounced their citizenship and long-term residents who
have ended their residency. These provisions are dis-
cussed in chapter 4 of Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens,
available at  IRS.gov/Pub519 .
Resident alien.  A resident alien is an individual who is
not a citizen or national of the United States and who
meets either the green card test or the substantial pres-
ence test for the calendar year.
1.  Green card test.  You are a U.S. resident if you were
a lawful permanent resident of the United States at
any time during the calendar year. This is known as
the green card test because resident aliens hold im-
migrant visas (also known as green cards).
2.  Substantial presence test.  You are considered a
U.S. resident if you meet the substantial presence test
for the calendar year. To meet this test, you must be
physically present in the United States on at least:
a.  31 days during the current calendar year; and
b.  A total of 183 days during the current year and the
2 preceding years, counting all the days of physi-
cal presence in the current year, but only one-third
the number of days of presence in the first preced-
ing year, and only one-sixth the number of days in
the second preceding year.
Example.  You were physically present in the United
States for 120 days in each of the years 1, 2, and 3. To de-
termine if you meet the substantial presence test for year
3, count the full 120 days of presence in year 3, 40 days in
year 2 ( 1 / 3  of 120), and 20 days in year 1 ( 1 / 6  of 120). Be-
cause the total for the 3-year period is 180 days, you are
not considered a resident under the substantial presence
test for year 3.
Even if you do not meet either of these tests, you may
be able to choose to be treated as a U.S. resident for part
of the year under the first-year choice test, discussed in
Pub. 519 .
For more information on resident and nonresident sta-
tus, the tests for residence, and the exceptions to them,
see  Pub. 519 .
Filing information.  Chapter 1  contains general filing in-
formation, such as:
•  Whether you must file a U.S. tax return,
•  When and where to file your return,
•  How to report your income if it is paid in foreign cur-
rency,
•  How to treat a nonresident alien spouse as a U.S. resi-
dent, and
•  Whether you must pay estimated tax.
Withholding tax.  Chapter 2  discusses the withholding
of income, social security, and Medicare taxes from the
pay of U.S. citizens and resident aliens.
Self-employment tax.  Chapter 3  discusses who must
pay self-employment tax.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  3

=== PAGE 4 ===
Foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing
exclusion, and foreign housing deduction.  Chapter 4
discusses income tax benefits that apply if you meet cer-
tain requirements while living and working abroad. You
may qualify to treat a portion of your earned income as not
taxable by the United States. You may also be able to ei-
ther deduct part of your housing expenses from your in-
come or treat a limited amount of income used for housing
expenses as not taxable by the United States. These ben-
efits are called the foreign earned income exclusion and
the foreign housing deduction and exclusion.
To qualify, you must have a tax home in a foreign coun-
try, earn income from personal services performed in a
foreign country, and meet either the physical presence or
bona fide residence test. These rules are explained in
chapter 4 .
If you are going to elect either or both of the exclusions
or take the deduction as discussed above, you must file
Form 2555 by attaching it to your federal income tax re-
turn, Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-X.
Deductions and credits.  Chapter 5  discusses deduc-
tions and credits you may be able to claim on your return.
These are generally the same as if you were living in the
United States. However, you can't deduct or exclude any
item, or take a credit for any item, that is related to
amounts you exclude as foreign earned income or foreign
housing amounts. Among the topics discussed in  chap-
ter 5  are:
•  Contributions to foreign organizations,
•  Contributions to individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs), and
•  Foreign taxes.
Tax treaty benefits.  Chapter 6  discusses some benefits
that are common to most tax treaties and explains how to
get help if you think you are not receiving a treaty benefit
to which you are entitled. It also explains how to get cop-
ies of tax treaties.
How to get tax help.  Chapter 7  is an explanation of how
to get information and assistance from the IRS.
Questions and answers.  Frequently asked questions
and answers to those questions are presented in the back
of this publication.
Comments and suggestions.  We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You  can  send  us  comments  through  IRS.gov/
FormComments . Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications.  Don’t  send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.
Getting answers to your tax questions.  If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the  How
To Get Tax Help  section near the end of this publication,
go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at  IRS.gov/
Help/ITA  where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to  IRS.gov/Forms  to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to  IRS.gov/OrderForms  to order current forms, instruc-
tions,  and  publications;  call  800-829-3676  to  order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t  resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.
1.
Filing Information
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  Whether you have to file a return,
•  When to file your return and pay any tax due,
•  How to treat foreign currency,
•  How to file electronically,
•  Where to file your return,
•  When you can treat your nonresident alien spouse as
a resident, and
•  When you may have to make estimated tax payments.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
3  Armed Forces' Tax Guide
334  Tax Guide for Small Business (For Individuals
Who Use Schedule C)
501  Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing
Information
505  Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
519  U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens
570  Tax Guide for Individuals With Income from U.S.
Territories
970  Tax Benefits for Education
3
334
501
505
519
570
970
4  Chapter 1  Filing Information  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 5 ===
Form (and Instructions)
1040  U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040-ES  Estimated Tax for Individuals
1040-X  Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
2350  Application for Extension of Time To File U.S.
Income Tax Return
2555  Foreign Earned Income
4868  Application for Automatic Extension of Time To
File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
8822  Change of Address
All of these forms, instructions, and publications can be
downloaded from  IRS.gov . See  chapter 7  for information
about getting these publications and forms.
Filing Requirements
Caution:  The filing and payment requirements dis-
cussed below are for U.S. individual income tax return,
Form 1040 and Form 1040-SR, filers. If you have filing and
payment requirements for other forms, follow the filing and
payment instructions contained in the instructions for the
specific form(s) you are required to file. To find the instruc-
tions for the specific form(s) you are required to file, go to
IRS.gov/FormsPubs  and enter the form number in the
search box.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, the rules for
filing income, estate, and gift tax returns and for paying es-
timated tax are generally the same whether you are living
in the United States or abroad.
Your income, filing status, and age generally determine
whether you must file an income tax return. Generally, you
must file an income tax return for any year in which your
worldwide gross income is at least the amount shown for
your filing status in Charts A through C under  Filing Re-
quirements  in the  Instructions for Form 1040 and 1040-
SR .
Note:  If you are married and entitled to file jointly, use the
married filing jointly threshold unless your spouse has filed
a separate return or another taxpayer claims your spouse
as a dependent.
Gross income.  This includes all income you receive in
the form of money, goods, property, and services that is
not exempt from tax.
For purposes of determining whether you must file a re-
turn, gross income includes any income that you can ex-
clude as foreign earned income or as a foreign housing
amount.
If you are self-employed, your gross income includes
the amount on Part I, line 7, of Schedule C (Form 1040),
available at  IRS.gov/ScheduleC .
Self-employed individuals.  If your net earnings from
self-employment are $400 or more, you must file a return
1040
1040-ES
1040-X
2350
2555
4868
8822
even if your gross income is below the amount listed for
your filing status in the  Instructions for Form 1040 and
Form 1040-SR . For more information on net earnings from
self-employment, see Pub. 334, Tax Guide for Small Busi-
ness (For Individuals Who Use Schedule C), available at
IRS.gov/Pub334 .
65 or older.  You are considered to be age 65 on the day
before your 65th birthday. For example, if your 65th birth-
day is on January 1, you are considered 65 for the prior
year.
Residents of U.S. territories.  If you are (or were) a
bona fide resident of a U.S. territory, you may be required
to file Form 8898, Statement for Individuals Who Begin or
End Bona Fide Residence in a U.S. Territory. See the
Instructions for Form 8898  for more information.
Filing and Payment Due Dates
If you file on a calendar-year basis, the regular due date
for filing your income tax return (Form 1040 or Form
1040-SR) is April 15 of the following year. If you file on a
fiscal-year basis (a year ending on the last day of any
month except December), the due date is 3 months and
15 days after the close of your fiscal year.
In general, the tax shown on your return should be paid
by the due date of the return, without regard to any exten-
sion of time for filing the return.
When the due date for doing any act for tax purpo-
ses—filing a return, paying taxes, etc.—falls on a Satur-
day, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is delayed until
the next business day.
For more information on when to file your income tax
return,  go  to  IRS.gov/Individuals/International-
Taxpayer/US-And-Resident-Aliens-Abroad .
Caution:  A tax return delivered by the U.S. mail or a
designated delivery service that is postmarked or dated
by the delivery service on or before the due date is consid-
ered to have been filed on or before that date. Go to
IRS.gov/PDS  for the current list of designated services.
Extensions
You can get an extension of time to file your income tax re-
turn. In some circumstances, you can also get an exten-
sion of time to file and pay any tax due.
However, if you pay the tax due after the regular due
date, interest will be charged from the regular due date
until the date the tax is paid.
This publication discusses four extensions:
•  an automatic 2-month extension,
•  an automatic 6-month extension,
•  an additional extension for taxpayers out of the coun-
try, and
•  an extension of time to meet residency tests.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 1  Filing Information  5

=== PAGE 6 ===
If you served in a combat zone or qualified hazardous
duty area, see Pub. 3, Armed Forces' Tax Guide, available
at  IRS.gov/Pub3 , for a discussion of extensions of dead-
lines.
Automatic 2-month extension.  You are allowed an au-
tomatic 2-month extension to file your income tax return
and pay federal income tax if you are a U.S. citizen or resi-
dent alien, and on the regular due date of your return:
•  You are living outside the United States and Puerto
Rico and your main place of business or post of duty
is outside the United States and Puerto Rico, or
•  You are in military or naval service on duty outside the
United States and Puerto Rico.
Even if you are allowed an extension, you will have to
pay interest on any tax not paid by the regular due date of
your return.
Extension for married taxpayers who reside out-
side of the U.S.  If you file a joint return, either you or
your spouse can qualify for the automatic extension. If you
and your spouse file separate returns, this automatic ex-
tension applies only to the spouse who qualifies for it.
How to request an automatic 2-month extension.
To use this automatic 2-month extension, you must attach
a statement to your income tax return explaining which sit-
uation listed earlier qualified you for the extension.
Previous 2-month extension.  If you cannot file your
income tax return within the automatic 2-month extension
period (June 15 for calendar-year taxpayers), you can
generally get an additional 4 months to file your return, for
a total of 6 months (to October 15 for calendar-year tax-
payers). The 2-month period and the 6-month period start
on April 15, the regular due date. You have to request the
additional 4 months by the due date allowed by the auto-
matic 2-month extension (June 15 for calendar-year tax-
payers).
How to request the additional 4-month extension.
To obtain this 4-month extension, complete and file Form
4868, Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File
U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, available at  IRS.gov/
Form4868 . Ensure the box for line 8 stating you are out of
the country and are a U.S. citizen or resident is checked.
The additional 4 months of time to file (unlike the origi-
nal 2-month extension) is not an extension of time to pay.
You must make an accurate estimate of your tax based on
the information available to you. If you find you cannot pay
the full amount due with Form 4868, you can still get the
extension. You will owe interest on the unpaid amount
from the original due date of the return (April 15 for calen-
dar-year taxpayers).
You may also be charged a penalty for paying the tax
late unless you have reasonable cause for not paying your
tax when due. Penalties for paying the tax late are as-
sessed from the original due date of your return, unless
you qualify for the automatic 2-month extension. In that sit-
uation, penalties for paying late are assessed from the ex-
tended due date of the payment (June 15 for calen-
dar-year taxpayers).
Automatic 6-month extension.  If you are not able to
file your income tax return by the regular due date (April
15 for calendar-year taxpayers), you can generally get an
automatic 6-month extension of time to file (but not of time
to pay).
Caution:  Exceptions to eligibility for an automatic
6-month  extension.  You  cannot  use  the  automatic
6-month extension of time to file if:
•  You want the IRS to figure your tax, or
•  You are under a court order to file by the regular due
date.
How to request the automatic 6-month extension.
To get this automatic extension, you must file  Form 4868 .
The form must show your properly estimated tax liability
based on the information available to you.
When  to  file.  Generally,  you  must  request  the
6-month extension by the regular due date of your return.
Additional extension of time for taxpayers out of the
country.  In addition to the 6-month extension, taxpayers
who are out of the country can request a discretionary
2-month additional extension of time to file their income
tax return (to December 15 for calendar-year taxpayers).
How to request the additional extension.  To re-
quest this extension, you must send the IRS a letter ex-
plaining  the  reasons  why  you  need  the  additional  2
months. Send the letter by the extended due date (Octo-
ber 15 for calendar-year taxpayers).
You will not receive any notification from the IRS unless
your request is denied.
The discretionary 2-month additional extension is not
available to taxpayers who have an approved extension of
time to file on Form 2350, Application for Extension of
Time to File U.S. Income Tax Return, available at  IRS.gov/
Form2350 , discussed next.
Extension of time to meet residency tests.  Generally,
you cannot get an extension of more than 6 months. If you
are outside the United States and meet certain require-
ments, you may be able to get a longer extension.
You can get an extension of more than 6 months to file
your income tax return if you need the time to meet either
the bona fide residence test or the physical presence test
to qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion and the
foreign housing exclusion or deduction. The tests, exclu-
sions, and deduction are explained in  chapter 4 .
You should request an extension if all three of the fol-
lowing apply.
1.  You are a U.S. citizen or resident alien.
2.  You expect to meet either the bona fide residence
test, or the physical presence test, but not until after
your tax return is due.
3.  Your tax home is in a foreign country (or countries)
throughout your period of bona fide residence or
physical presence, whichever applies.
6  Chapter 1  Filing Information  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 7 ===
If you are granted an extension, it will generally be for
30 days beyond the date on which you can reasonably ex-
pect to qualify for an exclusion or deduction under the
bona fide residence test or the physical presence test.
How to request the extension of time to meet resi-
dency tests.  To obtain an extension, file  Form 2350  by:
•  Giving it to a local IRS representative or other IRS em-
ployee,
•  Filing electronically via  e-file , or
•  Mailing it.
See the instructions for Form 2350 for the mailing ad-
dress.
You must file  Form 2350  by the due date for filing your
return. Generally, if both your tax home and your abode
are outside the United States and Puerto Rico on the reg-
ular due date of your return and you file on a calen-
dar-year basis, the due date for filing your return is June
15.
What if tests are not met.  If you obtain an extension,
and unforeseen events make it impossible for you to meet
the bona fide residence test or the physical presence test,
file your income tax return as soon as possible to limit in-
terest charged on any tax due after the regular due date of
the return.
Caution:  File your extension request early in order to
allow for the timely filing of your return if your request is
denied. You may be subject to a penalty if you file late and
additional tax is due.
Return filed before test is met.  If you file a return
before you meet the bona fide residence test or the physi-
cal presence test, you must report your worldwide income
and pay tax on that income. If you later meet either of the
tests, file Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income
Tax Return, available at  IRS.gov/Form1040X  , to claim the
foreign earned income exclusion, and the foreign housing
exclusion or foreign housing deduction.
How To File and Pay
Filing options.  There are two options for filing tax re-
turns and extensions:
1.  By mail, or
2.  By e-file
Filing by mail.  International tax returns and exten-
sions are mailed to specific addresses. To locate the mail-
ing address for the form you are filing, go to  IRS.gov/
Filing/International-Where To File Form 1040 Addresses
For Taxpayers And Tax Professionals . See  How to request
the additional extension , earlier, for Form 2350.
Filing by E-file.  IRS  e-file  is the fastest, easiest, and
most convenient way to file your income tax return elec-
tronically.
IRS  e-file  offers accurate, safe, and fast
alternatives to filing on paper. IRS com-
puters quickly and automatically check
for errors or other missing information.
Note:  Returns with a foreign address can be  e-filed .
Extensions can be filed through IRS Free File with no
income limit for extensions. For additional information, go
to  IRS.gov/Filing/Get-An-Extension-To-File-Your-Tax-
Return .
How to e-file.  There are three ways
you can  e-file .
1.  Use your personal computer.
2.  Use a volunteer. Many programs offering free tax help
can  e-file  your return.
3.  Use a tax professional. Most tax professionals can
e-file  your return.
These methods are explained in detail in the instructions
for your tax return.
For additional information on when to file, how to file,
and where to file your tax return, go to  IRS.gov/Individuals/
International-Taxpayers/US-Citizens-And-Resident-Aliens-
Abroad .
Payment options.  There are multiple options for pay-
ments of tax. For information on payment options, go to
IRS.gov/Payments . For information on foreign electronic
payments,  go  to  IRS.gov/Individuals/International-
Taxpayers/Foreign-Electronic-Payments-Tax-Type-Codes .
Foreign Currency
You must express the amounts you report on your U.S. tax
return in U.S. dollars. If you receive all or part of your in-
come, or pay some or all of your expenses, in foreign cur-
rency, you must translate the foreign currency into U.S.
dollars. How you do this depends on your functional cur-
rency. Your functional currency is generally the U.S. dollar
unless you are required to use the currency of a foreign
country.
You must make all federal income tax determinations in
your functional currency. The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency for all taxpayers except some qualified business
units (QBUs). A QBU is a separate and clearly identified
unit of a trade or business that maintains separate books
and records.
For additional information on foreign currency, currency
exchange rates, qualified business units, and links to cur-
rency  exchange  rates  and  resources,  see  IRS.gov/
Individuals/International-Taxpayers/Foreign-Currency-
And-Currency-Exchange-Rates , and  IRS.gov/Individuals/
International-Taxpayers/Yearly-Average-Currency-
Exchange-Rates .
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 1  Filing Information  7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Blocked Income
You must generally report your foreign income in terms of
U.S. dollars and, with one exception (see  Fulbright Grant ,
later), you must pay taxes due on it in U.S. dollars.
If, because of restrictions in a foreign country, your in-
come is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars or into
other money or property that is readily convertible into
U.S. dollars, your income is “blocked” or “deferrable” in-
come. You can report this income in one of the following
two ways.
•  Report the income and pay your federal income tax
with U.S. dollars that you have in the United States or
in some other country.
•  Postpone the reporting of the income until it becomes
unblocked.
If you choose to postpone the reporting of the income,
you must file an information return with your tax return. For
this information return, you should use another Form 1040
or 1040-SR labeled “Report of Deferrable Foreign Income,
pursuant to Rev. Rul. 74-351.” You must declare on the in-
formation return that you will include the deferrable in-
come in your taxable income for the year that it becomes
unblocked. You must also state that you waive any right to
claim that the deferrable income was includible in your in-
come for any earlier year. For detailed information, see
Revenue Ruling 74-351, 1974-2 C.B. 144.
You must report your income on your information return
using the foreign currency in which you received that in-
come. If you have blocked income from more than one for-
eign country, include a separate information return for
each country.
Income becomes unblocked and reportable for tax pur-
poses when it becomes convertible, or when it is conver-
ted, into U.S. dollars or into other money or property that is
convertible into U.S. currency. Also, if you use blocked in-
come for your personal expenses or dispose of it by gift,
bequest, or devise, you must treat it as unblocked and re-
portable.
If you have received blocked income on which you have
not paid tax, you should check to see whether that income
is still blocked. If it is not, you should take immediate steps
to pay tax on it, file a declaration or amended declaration
of estimated tax, and include the income on your tax re-
turn for the year in which the income became unblocked.
If you choose to postpone reporting blocked income
and in a later tax year you wish to begin including it in
gross income although it is still blocked, you must obtain
the permission of the IRS to do so. To apply for permis-
sion, file Form 3115, Application for Change in Accounting
Method, available at  IRS.gov/Form3115 .  You must also re-
quest permission from the IRS on Form 3115 if you have
not chosen to defer the reporting of blocked income in the
past, but now wish to begin reporting blocked income un-
der the deferred method. See the Instructions for Form
3115  for  information  on  changing  your  accounting
method.
Fulbright Grant
All income must be reported in U.S. dollars. In most cases,
the tax must also be paid in U.S. dollars. If, however, at
least 70% of your Fulbright grant has been paid in noncon-
vertible foreign currency (blocked income), you can use
the currency of the host country to pay the part of the U.S.
tax that is based on the blocked income.
Paying U.S. tax in foreign currency.  To qualify for this
method of payment, you must prepare a statement that
shows the following information.
•  You were a Fulbright grantee and were paid in noncon-
vertible foreign currency.
•  The total grant you received during the year and the
amount you received in nonconvertible foreign cur-
rency.
•  At least 70% of the grant was paid in nonconvertible
foreign currency.
The statement must be certified by the U.S. educational
foundation or commission paying the grant or other per-
son having control of grant payments to you.
You should prepare at least two copies of this state-
ment. Attach one copy to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR and
keep the other copy for identification purposes when you
make a tax deposit of nonconvertible foreign currency.
Figuring actual tax.  When you prepare your income
tax return, you may owe tax or the entire liability may have
been satisfied with your estimated tax payments. If you
owe tax, figure the part due to (and payable in) the non-
convertible foreign currency by using the following for-
mula.
Adjusted gross
income that is
blocked income  
×  Total U.S. tax  =  
Tax on blocked
income
Total adjusted
gross income
You must attach all of the following to the return.
•  A copy of the certified statement discussed earlier.
•  A detailed statement showing the allocation of tax
from amounts received in foreign currency and the
rates of exchange used in determining your tax liability
in U.S. dollars.
•  The original deposit receipt for any balance of tax due
that you paid in nonconvertible foreign currency.
Figuring estimated tax on nonconvertible foreign
currency.  If you are liable for  Estimated Tax Payments
(discussed later), figure the amount you can pay to the
IRS in nonconvertible foreign currency using the following
formula.
8  Chapter 1  Filing Information  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 9 ===
Adjusted gross
income that is blocked
income  
×  Total estimated U.S. tax  =  
Estimated tax on
blocked income
Total adjusted
gross income
If you must pay your host country income tax on your
grant, subtract any estimated foreign tax credit that ap-
plies to your grant from the estimated tax on the blocked
income.
Deposit of foreign currency with disbursing officer.
Once you have determined the amount of the actual tax or
estimated tax that you can pay in nonconvertible foreign
currency, deposit that amount with the disbursing officer of
the Department of State in the foreign country in which the
foundation or commission paying the grant is located.
Estimated tax installments.  You can either deposit
the full estimated tax amount before the first installment
due date or make four equal payments before the install-
ment due dates. See  Estimated Tax Payments , later.
Deposit  receipt.  Upon  accepting  the  foreign  cur-
rency, the disbursing officer will give you a receipt in dupli-
cate. The original of this receipt (showing the amount of
foreign currency deposited and its equivalent in U.S. dol-
lars) should be attached to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR or
payment voucher from Form 1040-ES, Estimated Tax for
Individuals, available at  IRS.gov/Form1040ES . Keep the
copy for your records.
Where To File—U.S. Territories
Resident of the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI).  If you are a
bona fide resident of the USVI during your entire tax year,
you are generally not required to file a U.S. return. How-
ever, you must file a return with the USVI.
For more information on how to file your USVI tax re-
turn, go to  BIR.VI.gov .
Send your return to:
U.S. Virgin Islands Bureau
of Internal Revenue
6115 Estate Smith Bay
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands 00802
Non-USVI resident with USVI income.  If you are a U.S.
citizen or resident alien and you have income from sour-
ces in the USVI or income effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the USVI, and you are
not a bona fide resident of the USVI during your entire tax
year, you must file identical tax returns with the United
States and the USVI. File the original return with the Uni-
ted States and file a signed copy of the U.S. return (includ-
ing all attachments, forms, and schedules) with the Virgin
Islands Bureau of Internal Revenue.
You must complete Form 8689, Allocation of Individual
Income Tax to the U.S. Virgin Islands, available at  IRS.gov/
Form8689 , and attach a copy to both your U.S. return and
your USVI return. File your U.S. return utilizing the  filing
options , mentioned earlier.
For Information about filing USVI returns, see Pub. 570,
Tax Guide for Individuals With Income from U.S. Territo-
ries, available at  IRS.gov/Pub570 .
Resident of Guam.  If you are a bona fide resident of
Guam during your entire tax year, you should file a return
with Guam.
For more information on how to file your Guam tax re-
turn, go to  Guamtax.com .
Send your return to:
Guam Department of Revenue and Taxation
Taxpayer Services Division
P.O. Box 23607
Barrigada, GU 96921
However, if you have income from sources within Guam
and you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, but not a bona
fide resident of Guam during the entire tax year, you
should file a return with the United States. File your U.S.
return utilizing the  filing options , mentioned earlier.
See  Pub. 570  for information about filing Guam returns.
Resident of the Commonwealth of the Northern Ma-
riana Islands (CNMI).  If you are a bona fide resident of
the CNMI during your entire tax year, you should file a re-
turn with the CNMI.
For more information on how to file your CNMI tax re-
turn, go to  Finance.gov.MP/Revenue-Taxation.php .
Send your return to:
Division of Revenue and Taxation
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
P.O. Box 5234, CHRB
Saipan, MP 96950
However, if you have income from sources within the
CNMI and you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, but not
a bona fide resident of the CNMI during the entire tax year,
you should file a return with the United States. File your
U.S. return utilizing the  filing options , mentioned earlier.
See  Pub. 570  for information about filing CNMI returns.
Note:  Puerto Rico and American Samoa have their own
separate and independent tax systems. Although their tax
laws are modeled on the U.S. Internal Revenue Code,
there are certain differences in law and tax rates. See  Pub.
570  for information about tax obligations in Puerto Rico
and American Samoa.
For more information on how to file your Puerto Rico tax
return, go to  Hacienda.PR.gov/ .
For more information on how to file your American Sa-
moa tax return, go to the American Samoa Tax Office’s
website, available at  Americansamoa.gov/Tax-Office .
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 1  Filing Information  9

=== PAGE 10 ===
Nonresident Alien Spouse
Treated as a Resident
If, at the end of your tax year, you are married and one
spouse is a U.S. citizen or resident alien and the other is a
nonresident alien, you can choose to treat the nonresident
as a U.S. resident. This election includes the situation in
which one of you is a nonresident alien at the beginning of
the tax year and a resident alien at the end of the year and
the other is a nonresident alien at the end of the year.
If you make this choice, the following two rules apply.
•  You and your spouse are treated, for income tax pur-
poses and purposes of wage withholding, as U.S. resi-
dents for the tax year in which the election is made
and all future tax years until the election is terminated
for one of the reasons listed in  Table 1 - 1 , later, or sus-
pended because neither spouse is a citizen or resi-
dent of the United States at any time during a year.
•  You must file a joint income tax return for the year you
make the choice and attach a statement as described
under  How To Make the Choice , later.
This means that neither of you can claim under any tax
treaty not to be a U.S. resident for a tax year for which the
choice is in effect.
Example 1.  Pat Smith, a U.S. citizen, is married to
Norman, a nonresident alien. Pat and Norman make the
choice to treat Norman as a resident alien by attaching a
statement to their joint return. Pat and Norman must report
their worldwide income for the year they make the choice
and for all later years unless the choice is ended or sus-
pended. Although Pat and Norman must file a joint return
for the year they make the choice, they can file either joint
or separate returns for later years.
Example 2.  When Bob and Sharon Williams got mar-
ried, both were nonresident aliens. In June of last year,
Bob became a resident alien and remained a resident for
the rest of the year. Bob and Sharon both choose to be
treated as resident aliens by attaching a statement to their
joint return for last year. Bob and Sharon must report their
worldwide income for last year and all later years unless
the choice is ended or suspended. Bob and Sharon must
file a joint return for last year, but they can file either joint
or separate returns for later years.
Tip:  If you do not choose to treat your nonresident
alien spouse as a U.S. resident, you may be able to use
head of household filing status. To use this status, you
must pay more than half the cost of maintaining a house-
hold for certain dependents or relatives other than your
nonresident alien spouse. For more information, see Pub.
501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Infor-
mation, available at  IRS.gov/Pub501 .
Social Security Number (SSN)
If you choose to treat your nonresident alien spouse as a
U.S. resident, your spouse must have either an SSN or an
individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN).
To get an SSN for a nonresident alien spouse, apply at
an office of the U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA)
or U.S. consulate. For more information, go to  SSA.gov , or
call 800-772-1213.
If the nonresident alien spouse is not eligible to get an
SSN, the spouse can file Form W-7, Application for IRS In-
dividual  Taxpayer  Identification  Number,  available  at
IRS.gov/FormW7 , with the IRS to apply for an ITIN when
you timely file the joint return on which you choose to treat
your nonresident alien spouse as a U.S. resident. Follow
the Instructions for Form W-7 to submit your Form W-7
and file your return.
ITIN renewal.  Your spouse may need to renew the ITIN.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/ITIN .
How To Make the Choice
Attach a statement, signed by both spouses, to your joint
return for the first tax year for which the choice applies. It
should contain the following.
•  A declaration that one spouse was a nonresident alien
and the other spouse a U.S. citizen or resident alien
on the last day of your tax year and that you choose to
be treated as U.S. residents for the entire tax year.
•  The name, address, and SSN (or ITIN) of each
spouse. (If one spouse died, include the name and
address of the person making the choice for the de-
ceased spouse.)
You generally make this choice when you file your joint
return. However, you can also make the choice by filing a
joint amended return on Form 1040-X.  Attach Form 1040
or 1040-SR and enter “Amended” across the top of the
amended return. If you make the choice with an amended
return, you and your spouse must also amend any returns
that you may have filed after the year for which you made
the choice.
You must generally file the amended joint return within
3 years from the date you filed your original U.S. income
tax return or 2 years from the date you paid your income
tax for that year, whichever is later.
10  Chapter 1  Filing Information  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 11 ===
Suspending the Choice
The choice to be treated as a resident alien does not ap-
ply to any later tax year if neither of you is a U.S. citizen or
resident alien at any time during the later tax year.
Example.  Dick Brown was a resident alien on Decem-
ber 31, 2020, and married to Judy, a nonresident alien.
They chose to treat Judy as a resident alien and filed joint
income tax returns for 2020 and 2021. On January 10,
2022, Dick became a nonresident alien. Judy had re-
mained a nonresident alien. Because Dick was a resident
alien during part of 2022, Dick and Judy can file joint or
separate returns for that year. Neither Dick nor Judy was a
resident alien at any time during 2023 and their choice is
suspended for that year. For 2023, both are treated as
nonresident aliens. If Dick becomes a resident alien again
in 2024, their choice is no longer suspended and both are
treated as resident aliens.
Ending the Choice
Once made, the choice to be treated as a resident applies
to all later years unless suspended (as explained earlier)
or ended in one of the ways shown in  Table 1 - 1 .
If the choice is ended for any of the reasons listed in Ta-
ble 1-1, neither spouse can make a choice in any later tax
year.
Estimated Tax Payments
The requirements for determining who must pay estimated
tax are the same for a U.S. citizen or resident abroad as
for a taxpayer in the United States.
In general, you don’t have to make estimated tax pay-
ments if you expect that your current year Form 1040 or
1040-SR will show a tax refund or a tax balance due of
less than $1,000. For more information on whether you
are required to make estimated tax payments, see Form
1040–ES,  Estimated  Tax  for  Individuals,  available  at
IRS.gov/Form1040ES  and Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and
Estimated Tax, available at  IRS.gov/Pub505 .
Foreign earned income exclusion.  When figuring your
estimated gross income, subtract amounts you expect to
exclude under the foreign earned income exclusion and
the foreign housing exclusion. In addition, you can reduce
your income by your estimated foreign housing deduction.
However, you must estimate tax on your nonexcluded in-
come using the tax rates that will apply had you not exclu-
ded the income. See the  Instructions for Form 1040  and
complete the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet to
figure the estimated tax on your nonexcluded income. If
the actual amount of the exclusion or deduction is less
than you estimate, you may have to pay a penalty for un-
derpayment of estimated tax.
For more information, see the  Instructions for Form
2555 .
Other Forms You May Have To
File
Forms That Must Be Filed With the
Treasury Department (FinCEN)
FinCEN Form 114.  You must file FinCEN Form 114, Re-
port of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR), if
you had any financial interest in, or signature or other au-
thority over, a bank, securities, or other financial account
in a foreign country. You do not need to file the report if the
assets are with a U.S. military banking facility operated by
a financial institution, or if the combined assets in the ac-
count(s) are $10,000 or less during the entire year.
Table 1-1.  Options for Ending the Choice To Treat Nonresident Alien Spouse as a Resident
Revocation  Either spouse can revoke the choice for any tax year.
The revocation must be made by the due date for filing the tax return for that tax year.
The spouse who revokes the choice must attach a signed statement declaring that the choice is being revoked. The statement
revoking the choice must include the following.
•  The name, address, and SSN (or TIN) of each spouse.
•  The name and address of any person who is revoking the choice for a deceased spouse.
•  A list of any states, foreign countries, and U.S. territories that have community property laws in which either spouse is
domiciled or where real property is located from which either spouse receives income.
If the spouse revoking the choice does not have to file a return and does not file a claim for refund, send the statement to the Internal
Revenue Service Center where the last joint return was filed.
Death  The death of either spouse ends the choice, beginning with the first tax year following the year in which the spouse died.
If the qualifying surviving spouse is a U.S. citizen or resident alien and is entitled to the joint tax rates as a qualifying surviving
spouse, the choice will not end until the close of the last year for which these joint rates may be used.
If both spouses die in the same tax year, the choice ends on the first day after the close of the tax year in which the spouses died.
Divorce or legal
separation
A divorce or legal separation ends the choice as of the beginning of the tax year in which the legal separation occurs.
Inadequate records  The IRS can end the choice for any tax year that either spouse has failed to keep adequate books, records, and other
information necessary to determine the correct income tax liability, or to provide adequate access to those records.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 1  Filing Information  11

=== PAGE 12 ===
FinCEN Form 114 is filed electronically with the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). The due date
for FBAR filings is April 15. FinCEN will grant an automatic
extension to October 15 if you are unable to meet the
FBAR annual due date of April 15. The FBAR due date
coincides with the filing due date for the current year Form
1040 or 1040-SR. For more information on foreign bank
and  financial  accounts  reporting  requirements,  go  to
IRS.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-Self-Employed/
Report-Of-Foreign-Bank-And-Financial-Accounts-FBAR .
FinCEN Form 105.  You must file FinCEN Form 105, Re-
port of International Transportation of Currency or Mone-
tary Instruments (CMIR), if you physically transport, mail,
ship, or cause to be physically transported, mailed, or
shipped, into or out of the United States, currency or other
monetary instruments totaling more than $10,000 at one
time. Certain recipients of currency or monetary instru-
ments must also file FinCEN Form 105.
More information about the filing of FinCEN Form 105
can be found on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection
(CBP)  website  at  CBP.gov/Travel/International-Visitors/
Kbyg/Money . The form is either completed online on the
U.S. Customs and Border Protection's website, available
at  Fincen105.CBP.DHS.gov ,  or  by  requesting  a  paper
copy from a CBP officer.
Forms That Must Be Filed With the
IRS With Form 1040
Form  8938.  You must file Form 8938, Statement of
Specified Foreign Financial Assets, to report the owner-
ship of specified foreign financial assets if the total value
of those assets exceeds an applicable threshold amount
(the “reporting threshold”). The reporting threshold varies
depending on whether you live in the United States, are
married, or file a joint income tax return with your spouse.
Specified foreign financial assets include any financial ac-
count maintained by a foreign financial institution and, to
the extent held for investment, any stock, any securities, or
any other interest in a foreign entity and any financial in-
strument or contract with an issuer or counterparty that is
not a U.S. person.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8938 .
Form 5471.  Certain U.S. persons who are officers, direc-
tors, or shareholders in certain foreign corporations must
file Form 5471, Information Return of U.S. Persons With
Respect To Certain Foreign Corporations, and schedules
to satisfy the reporting requirements of sections 6038 and
6046, and the related regulations for each applicable for-
eign corporation. For more information, go to  IRS.gov/
Form5471 .
Form 926.  U.S. citizens or residents, domestic corpora-
tions, or domestic estates or trusts must file Form 926, Re-
turn by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corpora-
tion, to report any exchanges or transfers of tangible or
intangible property that are described in section 6038B(a)
(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code to a foreign corpora-
tion. For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form926 .
Form 8865.  A U.S. person must file Form 8865, Return
of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain Foreign Partner-
ships, to report the information required under section
6038 (reporting with respect to controlled foreign partner-
ships), section 6038B (reporting of transfers to foreign
partnerships), or section 6046A (reporting of acquisitions,
dispositions, and changes in foreign partnership inter-
ests). For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8865 .
Form 8858.  Certain U.S. persons that own a foreign dis-
regarded entity (FDE) or foreign branch (FB) directly or, in
certain circumstances, indirectly or constructively must file
Form 8858, Information Return of U.S. Persons With Re-
spect to Foreign Disregarded Entities (FDEs) and Foreign
Branches (FBs), and schedules to satisfy the reporting re-
quirements of sections 6011, 6012, 6031, and 6038, and
related regulations. For more information, go to  IRS.gov/
Form8858 .
Form 8621.  A U.S. person that is a direct or indirect
shareholder  of  a  passive  foreign  investment  company
(PFIC) files Form 8621, Passive Foreign Investment Com-
pany or Qualified Electing Fund, if they:
•  Receive certain direct or indirect distributions from a
PFIC,
•  Recognize a gain on a direct or indirect disposition of
PFIC stock,
•  Are reporting information with respect to a QEF or
section 1296 mark-to-market election,
•  Are making an election reportable in Part II of the form,
or
•  Are required to file an annual report pursuant to sec-
tion 1298(f).
Note:  If you are an individual taxpayer that owns a
mutual fund or ETF that is not domiciled in the United
States, you may have a Form 8621 obligation.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8621 .
Forms 8964-ELE and 8964-TRA.  If you own one or
more qualified business units (QBUs), you may have a
Form 8964-ELE and 8964-TRA filing requirement. These
forms implement the reporting requirements in the final
Treasury Regulations under section 987.
Form 8964-ELE.  Form 8964-ELE is used to make or
revoke elections under the section 987 regulations. The
form is used to satisfy the reporting requirements of Regu-
lations sections 1.987-1(g).
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8964ELE .
Form 8964-TRA.  Form 8964-TRA is used to report
the section 987 transition information required under Reg-
ulations section 1.987-10(k).
The following persons have a requirement to file Form
8964-TRA:
•  An owner of the section 987 QBU on the transition
date. Form 8964-TRA should be filed for the tax year
beginning on the transition date.
12  Chapter 1  Filing Information  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 13 ===
•  A deferral QBU owner or the owner of an outbound
loss QBU if the deferral event or outbound loss event
occurred before the transition date. Form 8964-TRA
should be filed for the tax year beginning on the transi-
tion date.
•  An owner of a terminating QBU.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8964TRA .
Form 8854.  Section 877A applies to U.S. citizens who
have relinquished their citizenship, and long-term resi-
dents who have ended their residency (expatriated) on or
after June 17, 2008. Form 8854, Initial and Annual Expatri-
ation Statement, is used by expatriates to certify compli-
ance with tax obligations in the 5 years before expatriation
and to comply with their initial and annual information re-
porting obligations under section 6039G.
Note:  Individuals who expatriated for immigration pur-
poses after June 3, 2004, and before June 17, 2008, but
who have not previously filed a Form 8854, continue to be
treated as U.S. citizens or U.S. lawful permanent residents
for U.S. income tax purposes until they file a Form 8854.
See section 7701(n), as in effect before June 17, 2008.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form8854 .
Forms That Must Be Filed With the
IRS Separately From Form 1040
Form 3520.  U.S. persons (and executors of estates of
U.S. decedents) file Form 3520, Annual Return To Report
Transactions With Foreign Trusts and Receipt of Certain
Foreign Gifts, to report:
•  Certain transactions with foreign trusts,
•  Ownership of foreign trusts under the rules of Internal
Revenue Code sections 671 through 679, and
•  Receipt of certain large gifts or bequests from certain
foreign persons.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form3520 .
Form 3520-A.  A foreign trust with at least one U.S.
owner files Form 3520-A, Annual Information Return of
Foreign Trust With a U.S. Owner, annually to provide infor-
mation about:
•  The trust,
•  Its U.S. beneficiaries, and
•  Any U.S. person who is treated as an owner of any
portion of the foreign trust.
For more information, go to  IRS.gov/Form3520A .
Penalties
In general, penalties are assessed when there is a failure
to timely file complete and accurate international informa-
tion returns, and when there is a failure to timely furnish re-
quired information. For information on specific penalties,
see the instructions for the forms you are required to file.
For more information on penalties, see  IRS.gov/Penalties .
Other Issues Related To the Failure To
Timely File Complete and Accurate
International Information Returns
With the IRS by the Due Date
In addition to the penalties, failure to timely file complete
and accurate international information returns by the due
date can result in:
•  Suspension and/or extension of the assessment stat-
ute of limitations date (ASED) for Form 1040, and
•  Reduction in allowed foreign tax credit (Form 1116).
For information on specific returns that are impacted,
see the instructions for the forms you are required to file.
2.
Withholding Tax
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  Withholding income tax from the pay of U.S. citizens,
•  Withholding tax at a flat rate, and
•  Social security and Medicare taxes.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
505  Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
Form (and Instructions)
673  Statement for Claiming Exemption From
Withholding on Foreign Earned Income Eligible
for the Exclusion Provided by Section 911
W-4  Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate
W-9  Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and
Certification
See  chapter 7  for information about getting this publication
and these forms.
Income Tax Withholding
U.S. employers must generally withhold U.S. income tax
from the pay of U.S. citizens working abroad unless the
employer is required by foreign law to withhold foreign in-
come tax.
Foreign  earned  income  exclusion.  Your  employer
does not have to withhold U.S. income taxes from wages
505
673
W-4
W-9
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 2  Withholding Tax  13

=== PAGE 14 ===
you earn abroad if it is reasonable to believe that you will
exclude them under the foreign earned income exclusion
or the foreign housing exclusion.
Your employer should withhold taxes from any wages
you earn for working in the United States.
Statement.  You can give a statement to your em-
ployer indicating that you expect to qualify for the foreign
earned income exclusion under either the bona fide resi-
dence test or the physical presence test and providing
your estimated housing cost exclusion.
Form  673,  Statement  for  Claiming  Exemption  from
Withholding on Foreign Earned Income Eligible for the Ex-
clusion(s) Provided by Section 911, available at  IRS.gov/
Form673 , is an acceptable statement. You can use Form
673 only if you are a U.S. citizen. You do not have to use
the form and can prepare your own statement. For more
information, see  Form 673 .
Generally, your employer can stop the withholding once
you submit the statement that includes a declaration that
the statement is made under penalties of perjury. How-
ever, if your employer has reason to believe that you will
not qualify for either the foreign earned income or the for-
eign housing exclusion, your employer must continue to
withhold.
Your employer must consider any information about pay
you received from any other source outside the United
States in determining whether your foreign earned income
is more than the limit on either the foreign earned income
exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion.
Foreign tax credit.  If you plan to take a foreign tax
credit, you may be able to adjust your withholding on Form
W-4. You can take these additional tax credits only for for-
eign tax credits attributable to taxable salary or wage in-
come. For more information, see the instructions for Step
3 of Form W-4.
Withholding from pension payments.  U.S. payers of
benefits from employer-deferred compensation plans, in-
dividual retirement plans, and commercial annuities must
generally withhold income tax from payments delivered
outside of the United States. You can choose exemption
from withholding if you:
•  Provide the payer of the benefits with a residence ad-
dress in the United States or a U.S. territory, or
•  Certify to the payer that you are not a U.S. citizen or
resident alien or someone who left the United States
to avoid tax.
Check your withholding.  Before you report U.S. in-
come tax withholding on your tax return, you should care-
fully review all information documents, such as Form W-2
and the Form 1099 information returns. Compare other re-
cords, such as final pay records or bank statements, with
Form W-2 or Form 1099 to verify the withholding on these
forms. Check your U.S. income tax withholding even if you
pay someone else to prepare your tax return. You may be
assessed penalties and interest if you claim more than
your correct amount of withholding allowances.
30% Flat Rate Withholding
Generally, U.S. source gross income that is not effectively
connected to a U.S. trade or business, such as U.S.
source dividends and royalties, is subject to withholding
tax at a flat 30% (or lower treaty) rate if paid to nonresident
aliens. If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien and this
tax is withheld in error from payments to you because you
have a foreign address, you should notify the payer of the
income to stop the withholding. Use Form W-9 to notify
the payer.
You can claim the tax withheld in error as a withholding
credit on your tax return if the amount isn’t adjusted by the
payer. See the  Instructions for Form 1040 and Form 1040-
SR  for how to claim the credit.
Social security benefits paid to residents.  If you are a
lawful permanent resident (green card holder) and a flat
30% tax was withheld in error on your social security ben-
efits, you must file Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the Internal
Revenue Service Center at the address listed under  How
To File and Pay , earlier, to determine if you are entitled to
a refund. The following information must be submitted with
your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
•  A copy of Form SSA-1042–S, Social Security Benefit
Statement.
•  A copy of your “green card.”
•  A signed declaration that includes the following state-
ments.
“I am a U.S. lawful permanent resident and my green
card has been neither revoked nor administratively or
judicially determined to have been abandoned. I am
filing a U.S. income tax return for the tax year as a res-
ident alien reporting all of my worldwide income. I
have not claimed benefits for the tax year under an in-
come tax treaty as a nonresident alien.”
Social Security and Medicare
Taxes
Social security and Medicare taxes may apply to wages
paid to an employee regardless of where the services are
performed.
General Information
In general, U.S. social security and Medicare taxes do not
apply to wages for services you perform as an employee
outside the United States unless one of the following ex-
ceptions applies.
1.  You perform the services on or in connection with an
American vessel or aircraft  (defined later) and either:
a.  You entered into your employment contract within
the United States, or
14  Chapter 2  Withholding Tax  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 15 ===
b.  The vessel or aircraft touches at a U.S. port while
you are employed on it.
2.  The service is designated as employment for U.S. so-
cial security and Medicare tax purposes under  Bilat-
eral Social Security (Totalization) Agreements  (dis-
cussed later).
3.  You are working for an  American employer  (defined
later).
4.  You are working for a  Foreign affiliate  (defined later) of
an American employer under a voluntary agreement
entered into between the American employer and the
U.S. Department of the Treasury.
American vessel or aircraft.  An American vessel is any
vessel documented or numbered under the laws of the
United States and any other vessel whose crew is em-
ployed solely by one or more U.S. citizens, residents, or
corporations. An American aircraft is an aircraft registered
under the laws of the United States.
American employer.  An American employer includes
any of the following.
•  The U.S. Government or any of its instrumentalities.
•  An individual who is a resident of the United States.
•  A partnership of which at least two-thirds of the part-
ners are U.S. residents.
•  A trust of which all the trustees are U.S. residents.
•  A corporation organized under the laws of the United
States, any U.S. state, or the District of Columbia, Pu-
erto Rico, the USVI, Guam, or American Samoa.
An American employer also includes any foreign per-
son with an employee who is performing services in con-
nection with a contract between the U.S. Government (or
any instrumentality thereof) and a member of a domesti-
cally controlled group of entities which includes such for-
eign person.
Foreign affiliate.  A foreign affiliate of an American em-
ployer is any foreign entity in which the American em-
ployer has at least a 10% interest, directly or through one
or more entities. For a corporation, the 10% interest must
be in its voting stock. For any other entity, the 10% interest
must be in its profits.
Form 2032, Contract Coverage Under Title II of the So-
cial Security Act, available at  IRS.gov/Form2032 ,  is used
by American employers to extend social security coverage
to U.S. citizens and resident aliens working abroad for for-
eign affiliates of American employers. Once you enter into
an agreement, coverage cannot be terminated.
Excludable  meals  and  lodging.  Social security tax
doesn’t apply to the value of meals and lodging provided
to you for the convenience of your employer if it is reason-
able to believe that you will be able to exclude the value
from your income.
Bilateral Social Security (Totalization)
Agreements
The United States has entered into agreements with some
foreign countries to coordinate social security coverage
and taxation of workers who are employed in those coun-
tries. These agreements are commonly referred to as “to-
talization  agreements.”  Under  these  agreements,  dual
coverage and dual contributions (taxes) for the same work
are eliminated. The agreements generally make sure that
you pay social security taxes to only one country.
Generally, under these agreements, you will only be
subject to social security taxes in the country where you
are working. However, if you are temporarily sent to work
in a foreign country and your pay would otherwise be sub-
ject to social security taxes in both the United States and
that country, you can generally remain covered only by
U.S. social security.
For more information on specific agreements, go to
SSA.gov/International/Agreement_Descriptions.html  and
IRS.gov/TotalizationAgreements .
Covered by United States only.  If your pay in a foreign
country is subject only to U.S. social security tax and is ex-
empt  from  foreign  social  security  tax,  your  employer
should get a certificate of coverage from the SSA’s Office
of Earnings and International Operations. Employers can
request  a  certificate  of  coverage  online  at  SSA.gov/
international/CoC_link.html .
Covered by foreign country only.  If you are perma-
nently working in a foreign country with which the United
States has a social security agreement and, under the
agreement, your pay is exempt from U.S. social security
tax, you or your employer should get a statement from the
authorized official or agency of the foreign country verify-
ing that your pay is subject to social security coverage in
that country.
If the authorities of the foreign country will not issue
such a statement, either you or your employer should get
a statement from the U.S. SSA’s Office of Earnings and In-
ternational Operations at the website listed earlier. The
statement should indicate that your wages aren’t covered
by the U.S. social security system.
This statement should be kept by your employer be-
cause it establishes that your pay is exempt from U.S. so-
cial security tax.
Only wages paid on or after the effective date of the to-
talization agreement can be exempt from U.S. social se-
curity tax.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 2  Withholding Tax  15

=== PAGE 16 ===
3.
Self-Employment Tax
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  Who must pay self-employment tax,
•  Who is exempt from self-employment tax,
•  Who can defer self-employment tax payments, and
•  Which self-employed individuals can take the
refundable income tax credits for sick and family
leave.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
334  Tax Guide for Small Business
517  Social Security and Other Information for
Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers
Form (and Instructions)
Form 1040-SS  U.S. Self-Employment Tax Return
Form 4361  Application for Exemption From
Self-Employment Tax for Use by Ministers,
Members of Religious Orders and Christian
Science Practitioners
Schedule SE (Form 1040)  Self-Employment Tax
See  chapter 7  for information about getting these publica-
tions and forms.
Who Must Pay
Self-Employment Tax?
If you are a self-employed U.S. citizen or resident, the
rules for paying self-employment tax are generally the
same  whether  you  are  living  in  the  United  States  or
abroad.
The self-employment tax is a social security and Medi-
care tax on net earnings from self-employment. You must
pay self-employment tax if your net earnings from self-em-
ployment are at least $400.
For information on the maximum amount of self-em-
ployment net earnings that is subject to the social security
portion of self-employment tax, see the instructions for
Schedule  SE  (Form  1040),  available  at  IRS.gov/
ScheduleSE . All net earnings from self-employment are
subject to the Medicare portion of the tax. Additional Med-
icare Tax may apply to you if your net earnings from
self-employment exceed a threshold amount (based on
334
517
Form 1040-SS
Form 4361
Schedule SE (Form 1040)
your filing status). See Form 8959, Additional Medicare
Tax, available at  IRS.gov/Form8959 , for additional infor-
mation.
Employed by a U.S. Church
If you were employed by a U.S. church or a qualified
church-controlled organization that chose exemption from
social security and Medicare taxes and you received wa-
ges  of  $108.28  or  more  from  the  organization,  the
amounts paid to you are subject to self-employment tax.
However, you can choose to be exempt from social secur-
ity and Medicare taxes if you are a member of a recog-
nized religious sect. See Pub. 517, Social Security and
Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Reli-
gious Workers, available at  IRS.gov/Pub517 , for more in-
formation about church employees and self-employment
tax.
Effect of Exclusion
You must take all of your self-employment income into ac-
count in figuring your net earnings from self-employment,
even income that is exempt from income tax because of
the foreign earned income exclusion.
Example.  You are in business abroad as a consultant
and qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion. Your
foreign earned income is $95,000, your business deduc-
tions total $27,000, and your net profit is $68,000. You
must  pay  self-employment  tax  on  your  net  profit  of
$68,000, even though you are qualified for the foreign
earned income exclusion.
Members of the Clergy
If you are a member of the clergy, you are treated as
self-employed  for  self-employment  tax  purposes.  Your
U.S. self-employment tax is based upon net earnings from
self-employment  figured  without  regard  to  the  foreign
earned income exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion.
You can receive exemption from coverage for your min-
isterial duties if you conscientiously oppose public insur-
ance due to religious reasons or if you oppose it due to the
religious principles of your denomination. You must file
Form 4361, Application for Exemption From Self-Employ-
ment Tax for Use By Ministers, Members of Religious Or-
ders  and  Christian  Science  Practitioners,  available  at
IRS.gov/Form4361 ,  to apply for this exemption.
This subject is discussed in further detail in  Pub. 517 .
Income From U.S. Territories
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien and you own and
operate a business in a U.S. territory (Puerto Rico, Guam,
the CNMI, American Samoa, or the USVI), you must pay
tax on your net earnings from self-employment (if they are
$400 or more) from those sources. You must pay the
self-employment tax whether or not the income is exempt
from U.S. income taxes (or whether or not you must
16  Chapter 3  Self-Employment Tax  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 17 ===
otherwise file a U.S. income tax return). Unless your situa-
tion is described below, attach Schedule SE (Form 1040)
to your U.S. income tax return.
If you do not have to file Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the
United States and you are a resident of any of the U.S. ter-
ritories  listed  in  the  preceding  paragraph,  figure  your
self-employment tax on Form 1040-SS, U.S. Self-Employ-
ment Tax Return (Including the Additional Child Tax Credit
for Bona Fide Residents of Puerto Rico), available at
IRS.gov/Form1040SS , for additional information.
See  Filing options , earlier, for filing information.
Exemption From Dual-Country
Social Security and Medicare
Taxes
The United States may reach agreements with foreign
countries to eliminate dual coverage and dual contribu-
tions (taxes) to social security systems for the same work.
As a general rule, self-employed persons who are subject
to dual taxation will only be covered by the social security
system of the country where they reside. For more infor-
mation on how a specific agreement affects self-employed
persons, see  Bilateral Social Security (Totalization) Agree-
ments  in chapter 2, earlier.
If your self-employment earnings should be exempt
from foreign social security tax and subject only to U.S.
self-employment tax, you should request a certificate of
coverage from the U.S. SSA’s Office of Earnings and Inter-
national Operations. The certificate will establish your ex-
emption from the foreign social security tax.
You can request a certificate of coverage online at
SSA.gov/international/CoC_link.html .
4.
Foreign Earned Income
Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and
Foreign Housing
Deduction
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  Requirements for the foreign earned income
exclusion, the foreign housing exclusion, and the
foreign housing deduction,
•  How to determine the amount of the foreign earned
income exclusion,
•  How to determine the amount of the foreign housing
exclusion and the foreign housing deduction,
•  Effect of making valid exclusions and taking the
deduction, and
•  Effect of revocation of exclusions.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
514  Foreign Tax Credit for Individuals
516  U.S. Government Civilian Employees Stationed
Abroad
519  U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens
570  Tax Guide for Individuals With Income From
U.S. Territories
596  Earned Income Credit (EIC)
Form (and Instructions)
1040-X  Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
2555  Foreign Earned Income
See  chapter 7  for information about getting these publica-
tions and forms.
Who Qualifies for the
Exclusions and the Deduction?
If you meet certain requirements, you may qualify for the
foreign  earned  income  exclusion,  the  foreign  housing
exclusion, and/or the foreign housing deduction.
514
516
519
570
596
1040-X
2555
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 4  Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and Foreign Housing Deduction
17

=== PAGE 18 ===
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien living and
working abroad, you are taxed on your worldwide income.
However, you may qualify to exclude from income a por-
tion of your foreign earnings. In addition, you may qualify
to exclude or deduct certain foreign housing amounts. See
Foreign Earned Income Exclusion  and  Foreign Housing
Exclusion , later.
You may also be entitled to exclude from income the
value of meals and lodging provided to you by your em-
ployer. See  Exclusion of meals and lodging , later.
Requirements
To claim the foreign earned income exclusion, the foreign
housing exclusion, and/or the foreign housing deduction,
you must meet the following requirements.
1. Tax home.  You must have a tax home in a foreign
country (or countries). Generally, your tax home is your
principal place of business, employment, or post of duty,
regardless of where you maintain your family home. For
more details on the concept of tax home, see  IRS.gov/
FEIE-TaxHome .
2. Foreign country (or countries).  You must live in or
be present in a foreign country (or countries). A foreign
country includes any territory under the sovereignty of a
government other than that of the United States. However,
a foreign country does not include international waters
and the airspace above them. For details on the definition
of a foreign country, see  IRS.gov/FEIE-TaxHome .
3. Foreign earned income.  You must have wages, sal-
aries, self-employment income, etc., received for perform-
ing personal services in a foreign country (or countries).
For details on the classification of earned income, see
IRS.gov/FEIE-FEI .
4. Bona fide residence and physical presence tests.
a.  Bona fide residence . You must be a bona fide resident
of a foreign country (or countries) for an uninterrupted pe-
riod that includes an entire tax year. You use the bona fide
residence test only if you are either:
•  a U.S. citizen, or
•  a U.S. resident alien who is a citizen or national of a
country with which the United States has an income
tax treaty in effect.
You do not automatically acquire bona fide resident status
merely by living in a foreign country or countries for 1 year.
For  more  details  and  examples,  see  IRS.gov/FEIE-
BonaFideResidence .
b.  Physical presence . Alternatively, U.S. citizens and res-
ident aliens must be physically present in a foreign country
(or countries) for 330 full days during a period of 12 con-
secutive months. The 330 days don’t have to be consecu-
tive. The physical presence test is based only on how long
you stay in a foreign country or countries. This test doesn’t
depend on the kind of residence you establish, your inten-
tions about returning, or the nature and purpose of your
stay abroad. For details and examples, see  IRS.gov/FEIE-
PhysicalPresence .
c.  Exceptions to the bona fide residence and physical
presence  requirements .  The  minimum  time  require-
ments for bona fide residence and physical presence can
be waived if you must leave a foreign country because of
war, civil unrest, or similar adverse conditions in that coun-
try. For more information, see  People who failed to meet
eligibility requirements because of adverse conditions in a
foreign  country ,  earlier,  and  also  IRS.gov/Individuals/
International-Taxpayers/Exceptions-To-The-Bona-Fide-
Residence-And-The-Physical-Presence-Tests .
5. Valid election.  You must make, or have in effect, a
valid election by attaching Form 2555, Foreign Earned In-
come, with your income tax return or amended income tax
return. For details, see the instructions for Form 2555,
available at  IRS.gov/Form2555 .
Effect of Choosing the Exclusions
and Deduction
Once you choose the foreign earned income exclusion
election or foreign housing exclusion election, that choice
remains in effect for that year and all later years unless
you revoke it. This means you must make the same choice
in a subsequent year. Otherwise, it will be considered as a
revocation of your foreign earned income exclusion elec-
tion or foreign housing exclusion election for that year.
Foreign tax credit or deduction.  Once you've made a
foreign earned income exclusion election or foreign hous-
ing exclusion election, you can't take a foreign tax credit or
deduction for foreign taxes on income you choose to ex-
clude. See Pub. 514, Foreign Tax Credit for Individuals,
available at  IRS.gov/Pub514 , for more information.
Note:  If you're a high wage earner, it is possible to
take the foreign earned income exclusion up to the limita-
tion for the year. Then, you can take a foreign tax credit for
any foreign taxes paid on the portion of the wage that
wasn't excluded under the foreign earned income exclu-
sion.
Additional child tax credit.  Similarly, if you've made a
foreign earned income exclusion election, or foreign hous-
ing exclusion election, or taken the foreign housing deduc-
tion, you can't take the additional child tax credit in the
same  year.  For  more  information  on  this  credit,  see
Schedule 8812 (Form 1040), Credits for Qualifying Chil-
dren  and  Other  Dependents,  available  at  IRS.gov/
Schedule8812 .
Earned income credit.  If you elect the foreign earned
income exclusion, you don’t qualify for the earned income
credit for the year. For more information on this credit, see
Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit, available at  IRS.gov/
Pub596 .
Note:  Should you decide to take a foreign tax credit or
deduction, the additional child tax credit, or the earned in-
come credit in a subsequent year, your foreign earned
18  Chapter 4  Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and Foreign Housing Deduction
Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 19 ===
income exclusion election or foreign housing exclusion
election would be considered revoked for that year. For
more details on other deductions and credits, see  Deduc-
tions and Credits , later.
Effect of Revoking the Exclusions
You can revoke your choice for any year. You may revoke
in several different ways. You may revoke by attaching a
statement that you are revoking one or more previously
made choices to your return or amended return for the first
year that you do not wish to claim the exclusion(s). You
must specify which choice(s) you are revoking. You must
revoke separately a choice to exclude foreign earned in-
come and a choice to exclude foreign housing amounts.
Alternatively, if you decide to take the foreign tax credit,
additional child tax credit, or earned income credit in a
subsequent year, you will be considered to have revoked
your prior choice.
Note:  You do not need to revoke a prior choice just be-
cause you have no foreign earned income or foreign hous-
ing costs for the year.
If you revoked a choice and within 5 years again wish to
choose the same exclusion, you must apply for IRS appro-
val. You do this by requesting a ruling from the IRS. Re-
quests can be submitted by fax, encrypted email, or mail.
See  section  8.05(6).04(1)–(3)  of  Revenue  Procedure
2024-1,  2024-01  I.R.B.  42,  available  at  IRS.gov/irb/
2024-01_IRB#REV-PROC-2024-1 .  For  fax  requests,
transmissions of full packages with a cover sheet can be
faxed to 844-249-6231. For email requests, the IRS en-
courages use of secure electronic facsimile method, or
encrypted email attachment to  lbi.irt.info@irs.gov .
Mail your request for a ruling, in duplicate, to:
Associate Chief Counsel (International)
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:DRU
P.O. Box 7604
Ben Franklin Station
Washington, DC 20044
In deciding whether to approve your request to re-elect,
the IRS will consider any facts and circumstances that
may be relevant. These may include a period of residence
in the United States, a move from one foreign country to
another foreign country with different tax rates, a substan-
tial change in the tax laws of the foreign country of resi-
dence or physical presence, and a change of employer.
For  more  information,  go  to  IRS.gov/Individuals/
International-Taxpayers/Revoking-Your-Choice-To-
Exclude-Foreign-Earned-Income .
If a private delivery service is used, the address
is:
Associate Chief Counsel (International)
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:TSS, Room 5336
1111 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20224
Foreign Earned Income
Exclusion
Limit on Excludable Amount
You may be able to exclude up to the maximum amount al-
lowed for the specific tax year of your foreign earned in-
come.
You cannot exclude more than the smaller of:
•  The maximum annual exclusion amount allowed for
the specific tax year, or
•  Your foreign earned income for the tax year minus
your  foreign housing exclusion  (discussed later).
If both you and your spouse work abroad and have a
tax home in a foreign country, and each of you meets ei-
ther the bona fide residence test or the physical presence
test, you can each choose the foreign earned income ex-
clusion. You both don’t need to meet the same test. Each
of you can exclude up to the maximum annual exclusion
amount allowed for the year, for a total of twice the maxi-
mum annual exclusion amount for that year.
Foreign Housing Exclusion and
Deduction
In addition to the foreign earned income exclusion, you
can also claim an exclusion and/or a deduction from gross
income for your housing amount if your tax home is in a
foreign country and you qualify for the exclusions and de-
duction under either the bona fide residence test or the
physical presence test.
The housing exclusion applies only to amounts consid-
ered paid for with employer-provided amounts. The hous-
ing  deduction  applies  only  to  amounts  paid  for  with
self-employment earnings.
If you are married and you and your spouse each quali-
fies under one of the tests, see  Married Couples , later.
Housing Amount
Your housing amount is the total of your housing expenses
for the year minus the base housing amount.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 4  Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and Foreign Housing Deduction
19

=== PAGE 20 ===
Base housing amount.  The computation of the base
housing amount is tied to the maximum foreign earned in-
come exclusion. That amount is 16% of the maximum an-
nual exclusion amount allowed for the specific tax year, or
the daily amount (maximum annual exclusion amount al-
lowed, divided by 365 days, or 366 days for leap years),
multiplied by the number of days in your qualifying period
that fall within your tax year.
See the Limit on Housing Expenses Worksheet in Part
IV of the  Instructions for Form 2555 .
U.S. Government allowance.  You must reduce your
housing amount by any U.S. Government allowance or
similar nontaxable allowance intended to compensate you
or your spouse for the expenses of housing during the pe-
riod for which you claim a foreign housing exclusion or de-
duction.
Exclusion of meals and lodging.  You don’t include in
your income the value of meals and lodging provided to
you and your family by your employer at no charge if the
following conditions are met.
1.  The meals are furnished:
a.  On the business premises of your employer, and
b.  For the convenience of your employer.
2.  The lodging is furnished:
a.  On the business premises of your employer,
b.  For the convenience of your employer, and
c.  As a condition of your employment.
If these conditions are met, don’t include the value of
the meals or lodging in your income, even if a law or your
employment contract says that they are provided as com-
pensation.
Amounts you don’t include in income because of these
rules aren’t foreign earned income.
If  you  receive  a  Form  W-2,  excludable  amounts
shouldn’t be included in the total reported in box 1 as wa-
ges.
Housing  expenses.  Housing  expenses  include  your
reasonable expenses paid or incurred for housing in a for-
eign country for you and (if they live with you) for your
spouse and dependents.
Consider only housing expenses for the part of the year
that you qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion.
For a list of eligible housing expenses, see Part VI of the
Instructions for Form 2555.
Caution:  No double benefit.  You can’t include in
housing expenses the value of meals or lodging that you
exclude from gross income (see  Exclusion of meals and
lodging , earlier).
Limit on housing expenses.  The amount of qualified
housing expenses eligible for the housing exclusion and
housing deduction is limited. The standard limit is gener-
ally 30% of the maximum foreign earned income exclusion
(computed on a daily basis), multiplied by the number of
days in your qualifying period that fall within your tax year.
However, the limit will vary depending upon the location of
your foreign tax home.
A qualified individual incurring housing expenses in a
high-cost locality during a specific tax year can use hous-
ing expenses that total more than the standard limit on
housing expenses to determine the housing amount. An
individual who does not incur housing expenses in a
high-cost locality is limited to the standard limit.
The limits for high-cost localities are listed in the In-
structions for Form 2555.
Tip:  You can elect to apply the current year housing
cost limits to figure your prior year housing exclusion in-
stead of using the prior year limits. The IRS and the De-
partment of the Treasury anticipate that you will be able to
elect to apply the subsequent year limits to figure your cur-
rent year housing exclusion instead of using the current
year limits.
Second foreign household.  Ordinarily, if you main-
tain  two  foreign  households,  your  reasonable  foreign
housing expenses include only costs for the household
that bears the closer relationship (not necessarily geo-
graphic) to your tax home. However, if you maintain a sec-
ond, separate household outside the United States for
your  spouse  or  dependents  because  living  conditions
near your tax home are dangerous, unhealthful, or other-
wise adverse, include the expenses for the second house-
hold in your reasonable foreign housing expenses. You
can’t include expenses for more than one second foreign
household  at  the  same  time.  For  details,  see  the
Instructions for Form 2555 .
Foreign Housing Exclusion
If you do not have self-employment income, all of your
earnings are employer-provided amounts and your entire
housing amount is considered paid for with those em-
ployer-provided amounts. This means that you can ex-
clude (up to the limits) your entire housing amount.
Employer-provided  amounts.  These  include  any
amounts paid to you or paid or incurred on your behalf by
your employer that are taxable foreign earned income
(without regard to the foreign earned income exclusion) to
you for the year. Employer-provided amounts include:
•  Your salary,
•  Any reimbursement for housing expenses,
•  Amounts your employer pays to a third party on your
behalf,
•  The fair rental value of company-owned housing fur-
nished to you unless that value is excluded under the
rules explained earlier under  exclusion of meals and
lodging ,
•  Amounts paid to you by your employer as part of a tax
equalization plan, and
•  Amounts paid to you or a third party by your employer
for the education of your dependents.
20  Chapter 4  Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and Foreign Housing Deduction
Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 21 ===
Choosing the exclusion.  You can choose the foreign
housing exclusion by completing the appropriate parts of
Form 2555. Rules about choosing the foreign earned in-
come exclusion also apply to the foreign housing exclu-
sion.
Your foreign housing exclusion is the lesser of:
•  That part of your housing amount paid for with em-
ployer-provided amounts, or
•  Your foreign earned income.
If you choose the foreign housing exclusion, you must fig-
ure it before figuring your foreign earned income exclu-
sion. You cannot claim less than the full amount of the
housing exclusion to which you are entitled.
Foreign Housing Deduction
If you don’t have self-employment income, you can’t take a
foreign housing deduction.
How you figure your foreign housing deduction de-
pends on whether you have only self-employment income
or both self-employment income and employer-provided
income. In either case, the amount you can deduct is sub-
ject to the limit described later.
Self-employed,  no  employer-provided  amounts.  If
none of your housing amount is considered paid for with
employer-provided amounts, such as when all of your in-
come is from self-employment, you can deduct your for-
eign housing amount, subject to the limit described later.
Take the deduction by including it on line 24j of Schedule
1 (Form 1040).
Self-employed and employer-provided amounts.  If
you are both an employee and a self-employed individual
during the year, you can exclude the portion of your for-
eign housing cost amount related to wage income and de-
duct the portion of your foreign housing cost related to
self-employment income. To find the part that you can ex-
clude, multiply your foreign housing amount by the  em-
ployer - provided amounts  (discussed earlier) and then di-
vide the result by your foreign earned income. This is the
amount you can use to figure your foreign housing exclu-
sion. You can deduct the balance of the foreign housing
amount, subject to the limitation described later.
Example.  Your foreign housing amount for the year is
$18,000. During the year, your total foreign earned income
is $100,000, of which half ($50,000) is from self-employ-
ment and half is from your services as an employee. Half
of your foreign housing amount ($18,000 ÷ 2) is consid-
ered provided by your employer. You can exclude $9,000
as a foreign housing exclusion. You can deduct the re-
maining $9,000 as a foreign housing deduction subject to
the following limit below.
Limitation
Your foreign housing deduction cannot be more than your
foreign earned income minus the total of:
•  Your foreign earned income exclusion, plus
•  Your foreign housing exclusion.
Carryover.  You can carry over to the next year any part
of your foreign housing deduction that is not allowed be-
cause of the limitation. You are allowed to carry over your
excess foreign housing deduction to the next year only. If
you can’t deduct it in the next year, you can’t carry it over
to any other year. You deduct the carryover in figuring ad-
justed gross income. The amount of carryover you can de-
duct is limited to your foreign earned income for the year
of the carryover minus the total of your foreign earned in-
come exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, and foreign
housing deduction for that year.
Married Couples
If both you and your spouse qualify for the foreign housing
exclusion and/or the foreign housing deduction, how you
figure the benefits depends on whether you maintain sep-
arate households.
Separate Households
If you and your spouse live apart and maintain separate
households, you both may be able to claim the foreign
housing exclusion and/or the foreign housing deduction.
You both can claim the exclusion and/or the deduction if
both of the following conditions are met.
•  You and your spouse have different tax homes that
aren’t within reasonable commuting distance of each
other.
•  Neither spouse's residence is within reasonable com-
muting distance of the other spouse's tax home.
Housing exclusion.  Each spouse claiming a housing
exclusion must figure separately the part of the housing
amount that is attributable to employer-provided amounts,
based on the separate foreign earned income.
One Household
If you and your spouse live in the same foreign household
and  file  a  joint  return,  you  may  figure  your  housing
amounts jointly or separately. However, if you and your
spouse  live  in  the  same  foreign  household  and  you
choose to file separate returns, you must figure your hous-
ing amounts separately.
In computing the housing amounts jointly, you can com-
bine your housing expenses and figure one base housing
amount. Either spouse (but not both) can claim the hous-
ing exclusion and/or housing deduction. However, if you
and your spouse have different periods of residence or
presence and the one with the shorter period of residence
or presence claims the exclusion and/or deduction, you
can claim as housing expenses only the expenses for that
shorter period.
In  computing  housing  amounts  separately,  spouses
must figure the housing amounts separately using the
spouse's respective base house amount. Spouses may
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 4  Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Foreign
Housing Exclusion, and Foreign Housing Deduction
21

=== PAGE 22 ===
allocate all housing expenses to one spouse or allocate
housing  expenses  between  the  spouses  so  long  as
there's no duplication of housing expenses being exclu-
ded or deducted.
Tip:  Because each spouse must use their full base
housing amount in the calculation, it may be advanta-
geous for spouses residing together and filing jointly to al-
locate all housing expenses to one spouse and compute
their housing cost amounts separately.
Example.  Tom and Jane live together and file a joint
return. Tom was a bona fide resident of and had his tax
home in Ghana from August 17, 2024, through December
31, 2025. Jane was a bona fide resident of and had her
tax home in Ghana from September 15, 2024, through De-
cember 31, 2025.
During 2024, Tom received $75,000 of foreign earned
income and Jane received $50,000 of foreign earned in-
come. Tom paid $10,000 for housing expenses, of which
$7,500 was for expenses incurred from September 15
through the end of the year. Jane paid $3,000 for housing
expenses in 2024, all of which were incurred during her
period of residence in Ghana.
Tom and Jane figure their housing amount jointly. If Tom
claims  the  housing  exclusion,  their  housing  expenses
would be $13,000 ($10,000 + $3,000) and their base
housing amount, using Tom's 2024 period of residence
(August  17–December  31,  2024),  would  be  $7,754
($56.60 × 137 days). Tom's housing amount would be
$5,246 ($13,000 – $7,754). If, instead, Jane claims the
housing exclusion, their housing expenses would be limi-
ted to $10,500 ($7,500 + $3,000) and their base housing
amount, using Jane's period of residence (September 15–
December 31, 2024), would be $6,113 ($56.60 × 108
days). Jane's housing amount would be $4,387 ($10,500
– $6,113).
For more guidance on foreign earned income exclu-
sion, foreign housing exclusion, and foreign housing de-
duction, see  Form 2555 and its instructions , and  Interna-
tional practice units are available for help with questions
and issues , earlier.
5.
Deductions and Credits
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  The rules concerning items related to excluded
income,
•  Contributions to foreign charitable organizations,
•  Contributions to individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs),
•  Taxes of foreign countries and U.S. territories, and
•  How to report deductions.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
501  Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing
Information
514  Foreign Tax Credit for Individuals
523  Selling Your Home
526  Charitable Contributions
590-A  Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
597  Information on the United States–Canada
Income Tax Treaty
Form (and Instructions)
1116  Foreign Tax Credit
2106  Employee Business Expenses
2555  Foreign Earned Income
Schedule A (Form 1040)  Itemized Deductions
Schedule C (Form 1040)  Profit or Loss From
Business
SS-5  Application for a Social Security Card
W-7  Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number
See  chapter 7  for information about getting these publica-
tions and forms.
Items Related to Excluded
Income
U.S. citizens and resident aliens living outside the United
States are generally allowed the same deductions as citi-
zens and residents living in the United States.
If you choose to exclude foreign earned income or
housing amounts, you cannot deduct, exclude, or claim a
credit for any item that can be allocated to or charged
against the excluded amounts. This includes any expen-
ses, losses, and other normally deductible items that are
allocable to the excluded income. You can deduct only
those  expenses  connected  with  earning  includible  in-
come.
These rules apply only to items definitely related to the
excluded earned income and they do not apply to other
501
514
523
526
590-A
597
1116
2106
2555
Schedule A (Form 1040)
Schedule C (Form 1040)
SS-5
W-7
22  Chapter 5  Deductions and Credits  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 23 ===
items that aren’t definitely related to any particular type of
gross income. These rules don’t apply to items such as:
•  Qualified retirement contributions,
•  Alimony payments,
•  Charitable contributions,
•  Medical expenses,
•  Mortgage interest, or
•  Real estate taxes on your personal residence.
For purposes of these rules, your housing deduction
isn’t treated as allocable to your excluded income, but the
deduction for self-employment tax is.
If you receive foreign earned income in a tax year after
the year in which you earned it, you may have to file an
amended return for the earlier year to properly adjust the
amounts of deductions, credits, or exclusions allocable to
your foreign earned income and housing exclusions.
Example.  In 2022, you had $95,600 of foreign earned
income and $9,500 of deductions allocable to your foreign
earned income. You did not have a housing exclusion. Be-
cause you excluded all of your foreign earned income, you
would not have been able to claim any of the deductions
on your 2022 return.
In 2023, you received an $18,000 bonus for work you
did abroad in 2022. You can exclude $16,400 of the bonus
because the limit on the foreign earned income exclusion
for 2022 was $112,000 and you have already excluded
$95,600. Because you must include $1,600 of the bonus
($18,000 − $16,400) for work you did in 2022 in income,
you can file an amended return for 2021 to claim $133.80
($9,500 x $1,600/$113,600) of the deductions. These are
the deductions allocable to the foreign earned income
($9,500) multiplied by the includible portion of the foreign
earned income ($1,600) and divided by the total foreign
earned income for 2022 ($113,600).
Contributions to Foreign
Charitable Organizations
If you make contributions directly to a foreign church or
other foreign charitable organization, you generally cannot
deduct them. Exceptions are explained under  Canadian,
Mexican, and Israeli charities , later.
You can deduct contributions to a U.S. organization that
transfers funds to a charitable foreign organization if the
U.S. organization controls the use of the funds by the for-
eign organization or if the foreign organization is just an
administrative arm of the U.S. organization.
Canadian, Mexican, and Israeli charities.  Under the
income tax treaties with Canada, Mexico, and Israel, you
may be able to deduct contributions to certain Canadian,
Mexican, and Israeli charitable organizations. Generally,
you must have income from sources in Canada, Mexico,
or Israel, and the organization must meet certain require-
ments.  See  Pub.  597,  Information  on  the  United
States-Canada Income Tax Treaty, available at  IRS.gov/
Pub597 , and Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions, available
at  IRS.gov/Pub526 , for more information.
Contributions to Individual
Retirement Arrangements
(IRAs)
Contributions to your IRAs that are traditional IRAs or Roth
IRAs are generally limited to the lesser of the maximum
annual amount for the specific tax year, or your compen-
sation that is includible in your gross income for the tax
year. In determining compensation for this purpose, don’t
take into account amounts you exclude under either the
foreign earned income exclusion or the foreign housing
exclusion. Don’t reduce your compensation by the foreign
housing deduction.
If you are covered by an employer retirement plan at
work, your deduction for your contributions to your tradi-
tional IRAs is generally limited based on your MAGI. This
is your adjusted gross income figured without taking into
account the foreign earned income exclusion, the foreign
housing exclusion, or the foreign housing deduction. Other
modifications are also required. For more information on
contributions to IRAs, see Pub. 590-A, Contributions to In-
dividual  Retirement  Arrangements  (IRAs),  available  at
IRS.gov/Pub590A .
Taxes of Foreign Countries and
U.S. Territories
You can take either a credit or a deduction for income
taxes paid to a foreign country or a U.S. territory. Taken as
a deduction, foreign income taxes reduce your taxable in-
come. Taken as a credit, foreign income taxes reduce your
tax liability. You must treat all foreign income taxes the
same way. If you take a credit for any foreign income
taxes, you cannot deduct any foreign income taxes. How-
ever, you may be able to deduct other foreign taxes. See
Deduction for Other Foreign Taxes , later.
There is no rule to determine whether it is to your ad-
vantage to take a deduction or a credit for foreign income
taxes. In most cases, it is to your advantage to take foreign
income taxes as a tax credit, which you subtract directly
from your U.S. tax liability, rather than as a deduction in
figuring taxable income. However, if foreign income taxes
were imposed at a high rate and the proportion of foreign
income to U.S. income is small, a lower final tax may result
from deducting the foreign income taxes. In any event, you
should figure your tax liability both ways and then use the
one that is better for you.
You can choose to claim a credit or to change from
claiming a deduction to claiming a credit at any time dur-
ing the period within 10 years from the regular due date for
filing the return (without regard to any extension of time to
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 5  Deductions and Credits  23

=== PAGE 24 ===
file) for the tax year in which the taxes were actually paid
or accrued. You can also choose to claim a deduction or
to change from claiming a credit to claiming a deduction at
any time during the period within 3 years from the time you
filed the return or 2 years from when you paid the tax,
whichever is later. This 10-year or 3-year (or 2-year) pe-
riod may be extended by an agreement. You make or
change your choice on your tax return (or on an amended
return) for the year your choice is to be effective.
Foreign  income  taxes.  These are generally income
taxes you pay to any foreign country or U.S. territory.
Foreign income taxes on U.S. return.  Foreign income
taxes can only be taken as a credit on Schedule 3 (Form
1040), line 1, or as an itemized deduction on Schedule A
(Form 1040). These amounts cannot be included as with-
held income taxes on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 25.
Foreign taxes paid on excluded income.  You cannot
take a credit or deduction for foreign income taxes paid on
earnings you exclude from tax under any of the following.
•  Foreign earned income exclusion.
•  Foreign housing exclusion.
•  Territory exclusion.
If your wages are completely excluded, you can’t deduct
or take a credit for any of the foreign taxes paid on your
wages.
If only part of your wages is excluded, you can’t deduct
or take a credit for the foreign income taxes allocable to
the excluded part. You find the taxes allocable to your ex-
cluded wages by applying a fraction to the foreign taxes
paid on foreign earned income received during the tax
year. The numerator (top number) of the fraction is your
excluded foreign earned income received during the tax
year minus deductible expenses allocable to that income
(not including the foreign housing deduction). The denom-
inator (bottom number) of the fraction is your total foreign
earned income received during the tax year minus all de-
ductible expenses allocable to that income (including the
foreign housing deduction).
If foreign law taxes both earned income and some other
type of income and the taxes on the other type can’t be
separated, the denominator of the fraction is the total
amount of income subject to foreign tax minus deductible
expenses allocable to that income.
Caution:  If you take a foreign tax credit for tax on in-
come you could have excluded under your choice to ex-
clude foreign earned income or your choice to exclude for-
eign housing costs, one or both of the choices may be
considered revoked.
Credit for Foreign Income Taxes
If you take the foreign tax credit, you may have to file Form
1116, Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust),
available  at  IRS.gov/Form1116 ,  with  Form  1040  or
1040-SR. Form 1116 is used to figure the amount of for-
eign tax paid or accrued that can be claimed as a foreign
tax credit. Don’t include the amount of foreign tax paid or
accrued as withheld federal income taxes on Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 25.
The foreign income tax for which you can claim a credit
is the amount of legal and actual tax liability you pay or ac-
crue during the year. The amount for which you can claim
a credit is not necessarily the amount withheld by the for-
eign country. You can’t take a foreign tax credit for income
tax you paid to a foreign country that would be refunded
by the foreign country if you made a claim for refund.
Subsidies.  If a foreign country returns your foreign tax
payments to you in the form of a subsidy, you cannot claim
a foreign tax credit based on these payments. This rule
applies to a subsidy provided by any means that is deter-
mined, directly or indirectly, by reference to the amount of
tax, or to the base used to figure the tax.
Some ways of providing a subsidy are refunds, credits,
deductions, payments, or discharges of obligations. A
credit is also not allowed if the subsidy is given to a person
related to you, or persons who participated in a transac-
tion or a related transaction with you.
Limit
The foreign tax credit is limited to the part of your total U.S.
tax that is in proportion to your taxable income from sour-
ces outside the United States compared to your total taxa-
ble income. The allowable foreign tax credit can’t be more
than your actual foreign tax liability.
Exemption from limit.  You won’t be subject to this limit
and won’t have to file Form 1116 if you meet all three of
the following requirements.
•  Your only foreign source income for the year is passive
income (dividends, interest, royalties, etc.) that is re-
ported to you on a payee statement (such as a Form
1099-DIV or 1099-INT).
•  Your foreign taxes for the year that qualify for the credit
are not more than $300 ($600 if you are filing a joint
return) and are reported on a payee statement.
•  You elect this procedure.
If you make this election, you can’t carry back or carry
over any unused foreign tax to or from this year.
Separate limit.  You must figure the limit on a separate
basis with regard to section 951A category income, for-
eign branch category income, passive category income,
general category income, section 901(j) income, certain
income re-sourced by treaty, and any lump-sum distribu-
tions from an employer benefit plan for which the special
averaging treatment is used to determine your tax (see the
Instructions for Form 1116 ).
Figuring the limit.  In figuring taxable income in each
category, you take into account only the amount that you
must include in income on your federal tax return. Don’t
take any excluded amount into account.
24  Chapter 5  Deductions and Credits  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 25 ===
To determine your taxable income in each category, de-
duct expenses and losses that are definitely related to that
income.
Other expenses (such as itemized deductions or the
standard deduction) not definitely related to specific items
of income must be apportioned to the foreign income in
each category by multiplying them by a fraction. The nu-
merator (top number) of the fraction is your gross foreign
income in the separate limit category. The denominator
(bottom number) of the fraction is your gross income from
all sources. For this purpose, gross income includes in-
come that is excluded under the foreign earned income
provisions but does not include any other exempt income.
You must use special rules for deducting interest expen-
ses. For more information on allocating and apportioning
your deductions, see Pub. 514, Foreign Tax Credit for Indi-
viduals, available at  IRS.gov/Pub514 .
Recapture of foreign losses.  If you have an overall for-
eign loss and the loss reduces your U.S. source income
(resulting in a reduction of your U.S. tax liability with re-
spect to U.S. source income), you must recapture the loss
in later years when you have taxable income from foreign
sources. This is done by treating a part of your taxable in-
come from foreign sources in later years as U.S. source
income. This reduces the numerator of the limiting fraction
and the resulting foreign tax credit limit.
Recapture of domestic losses.  If you have an overall
domestic loss and the loss reduces your foreign source in-
come (resulting in a reduction in the amount of foreign tax
credit you can claim for taxes paid during that year), you
must recapture the loss in later years when you have U.S.
source taxable income. This is done by treating a part of
your taxable income from U.S. sources in later years as
foreign source income. This increases the numerator of
the limitation fraction and the resulting foreign tax credit
limit.
Foreign  tax  credit  carryback  and  carryover.  The
amount of foreign income tax not allowed as a credit be-
cause of the limit can be carried back 1 year and carried
forward 10 years.
Schedule B (Form 1116) is used to reconcile your
prior-year foreign tax carryover with your current year for-
eign tax carryover. The schedule replaces the previous at-
tachment requirement for Part III, line 10, of Form 1116.
For more information, see the Instructions for Schedule B
and the instructions for Form 1116, line 10, at  Form 1116 .
Deduction for Foreign Income Taxes
Instead of taking the foreign tax credit, you can deduct for-
eign income taxes as an itemized deduction on Sched-
ule A (Form 1040), available at  IRS.gov/ScheduleA .
You deduct only foreign income taxes paid on income
that is subject to U.S. tax. You can’t deduct foreign taxes
paid on earnings you exclude from tax under any of the
following.
•  Foreign earned income exclusion.
•  Foreign housing exclusion.
•  Territory exclusion.
Example.  You are a U.S. citizen and qualify to exclude
your  foreign  earned  income.  Your  excluded  wages  in
Country X are $70,000 on which you paid income tax of
$10,000.  You  received  dividends  from  Country  X  of
$2,000 on which you paid income tax of $600.
You can deduct the $600 tax payment because the divi-
dends relating to it are subject to U.S. tax. Because you
exclude your wages, you cannot deduct the income tax of
$10,000.
If you exclude only a part of your wages, see the earlier
discussion under  foreign taxes paid on excluded income .
Deduction for Other Foreign Taxes
You cannot deduct other foreign taxes, such as real prop-
erty or personal property taxes, unless you incurred the
expenses in a trade or business or in the production of in-
come.
On the other hand, you can generally deduct real prop-
erty or personal property taxes when you pay them to U.S.
territories. But if you claim the territory exclusion, see  Pub.
570 .
The deduction for foreign taxes other than foreign in-
come taxes isn’t related to the foreign tax credit. You can
take deductions for these miscellaneous foreign taxes and
also claim the foreign tax credit for income taxes imposed
by a foreign country.
How To Report Deductions
If you exclude foreign earned income or housing amounts,
how you show your deductions on your tax return and how
you figure the amount allocable to your excluded income
depend on whether the expenses are used in figuring ad-
justed gross income (Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11) or
are itemized deductions.
If you have deductions used in figuring adjusted gross
income, enter the total amount for each of these items on
the appropriate lines and schedules of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Generally, you figure the amount of a deduction
related to the excluded income by multiplying the deduc-
tion by a fraction, the numerator of which is your foreign
earned income exclusion and the denominator of which is
your foreign earned income. Enter the amount of the de-
duction(s) related to excluded income on line 44 of Form
2555.
If you have itemized deductions related to excluded in-
come, enter on Schedule A (Form 1040) only the part not
related to excluded income. You figure that amount by
subtracting from the total deduction the amount related to
excluded income. Generally, you figure the amount that is
related to the excluded income by multiplying the total de-
duction by a fraction, the numerator of which is your for-
eign earned income exclusion and the denominator of
which is your foreign earned income. Attach a statement
to your return showing how you figured the deductible
amount.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 5  Deductions and Credits  25

=== PAGE 26 ===
Example 1.  You are a U.S. citizen employed as an ac-
countant. Your tax home is in Germany for the entire tax
year. You meet the physical presence test. Your foreign
earned income for the year was $129,875 and your invest-
ment income was $8,890. After excluding $120,000, your
adjusted gross income is $18,765.
Generally, mortgage interest is deductible on Sched-
ule A (Form 1040). You paid mortgage interest on your for-
eign home of $15,000. Your mortgage is under $750,000.
Reduce the $15,000 of your mortgage interest by 92.3%
(0.923) ($13,845) because you excluded 92.3% (0.923)
($120,000/$129,875) of your foreign earned income.
The remaining mortgage interest of $1,155 can be de-
ducted on line 8a or 8b of Schedule A (Form 1040).
Example 2.  You are a U.S. citizen, have a tax home in
Spain, and meet the physical presence test. You are
self-employed and personal services produce the busi-
ness income. Your gross income was $121,842, business
expenses  were  $67,695,  and  net  income  (profit)  was
$54,147. You choose the foreign earned income exclusion
and exclude $120,000 of your gross income. Because
your excluded income is 98.48% (0.9848) of your total in-
come, 98.48% (0.9848) of your business expenses are
not deductible. Report your total income and expenses on
Schedule C (Form 1040). On Form 2555, you will show
the following.
•  Line 20a, $121,842, gross income.
•  Lines 42 and 43, $120,000, foreign earned income ex-
clusion.
•  Line 44, $66,666 (98.48% (0.9848) × $67,695), busi-
ness expenses attributable to the exclusion.
Example 3.  Assume in  Example 2  that both capital
and personal services combine to produce the business
income. No more than 30% of your net income or $16,244
($54,147 x 30% (0.30)), assuming that this amount is a
reasonable allowance for your services, is considered
earned and can be excluded. Your exclusion of $16,244 is
13.33% of your gross income ($16,244 ÷ $121,842). Be-
cause you excluded 13.33% of your net income, $9,024
(13.33% (0.1333) x $67,695) of your business expenses
is attributable to the excluded income and is not deducti-
ble.
Example 4.  You are a U.S. citizen, have a tax home in
Brazil,  and  meet  the  physical  presence  test.  You  are
self-employed  and  both  capital  and  personal  services
combine to produce business income. Your gross income
was $146,000, business expenses were $172,000, and
your net loss was $26,000. A reasonable allowance for the
services you performed for the business is $77,000. Be-
cause you incurred a net loss, the earned income limit of
30% of your net profit does not apply. The $77,000 is for-
eign  earned  income.  If  you  choose  to  exclude  the
$77,000,  you  exclude  52.74%  of  your  gross  income
($77,000 ÷ $146,000), and 52.74% of your business ex-
penses ($90,713) is attributable to that income and is not
deductible. Show your total income and expenses on
Schedule C (Form 1040). On Form 2555, exclude $77,000
and  show  $90,713  on  line  44.  Subtract  line  44  from
line 43, and enter the difference as a negative (in paren-
theses) on line 45. Because this amount is negative, enter
it as a positive (no parentheses) on line 8d of Schedule 1
(Form 1040), and combine it with your other income to ar-
rive at total income on line 9 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040).
Tip:  In Example 4, if this was the first year you were el-
igible to claim the foreign earned income exclusion, you
probably would not want to do so because you have a net
loss. However, if you have a valid election in place from an
earlier year and decide not to take the exclusion, you will
be considered to have revoked your election and cannot
claim the exclusion again for the next 5 tax years without
IRS approval. See  Effect of Choosing the Exclusions and
Deduction  in chapter 4.
Example 5.  You are a U.S. citizen, have a tax home in
Panama, and meet the bona fide residence test. You have
been performing services for clients as a partner in a firm
that provides services exclusively in Panama. Capital in-
vestment is not material in producing the partnership's in-
come. Under the terms of the partnership agreement, you
are to receive 50% of the net profits. The partnership re-
ceived gross income of $248,000 and incurred operating
expenses of $102,250. Of the net profits of $145,750, you
received $72,875 as your distributive share.
You choose to exclude $120,000 of your share of the
gross income. Because you exclude 96.77% (0.9677)
($120,000 ÷ $124,000) of your share of the gross income,
you cannot deduct $49,474, which is 96.77% (0.9677) of
your share of the operating expenses (96.77% (0.9677) ×
$51,125). Report $72,875, your distributive share of the
partnership net profit, on Schedule E (Form 1040). On
Form 2555, show $120,000 on line 42 and show $49,474
on line 44. Your exclusion on Form 2555 is $70,521.
6.
Tax Treaty  Benefits
Topics
This chapter discusses:
•  Some common tax treaty benefits,
•  How to get help in certain situations, and
•  How to get copies of tax treaties.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
597  Information on the United States–Canada
Income Tax Treaty
901  U.S. Tax Treaties
597
901
26  Chapter 6  Tax Treaty Benefits  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 27 ===
See  chapter 7  for information about getting these publica-
tions.
Purpose of Tax Treaties
The United States has bilateral income tax treaties, also
known as conventions, with many countries. See Table 3
under the list of tax treaty tables at  IRS.gov/TreatyTables
for a list of countries with which the United States has an
income tax treaty in effect.
Under these treaties, citizens and residents of the Uni-
ted States who are subject to taxes imposed by the for-
eign countries may be entitled to certain credits, deduc-
tions, exemptions, and reductions in the rate of taxes of
those foreign countries. If a foreign country with which the
United States has a treaty imposes a tax on you, you may
be entitled to benefits under the treaty.
Treaty benefits are generally available to residents of
the United States. They are generally not available to U.S.
citizens who do not reside in the United States. However,
certain treaty benefits and safeguards, such as the non-
discrimination provisions, are available to U.S. citizens re-
siding in the treaty countries. U.S. citizens residing in a for-
eign country may also be entitled to benefits under that
country's tax treaties with third countries.
Certification of U.S. residency.  Use Form 8802, Appli-
cation for United States Residency Certification, available
at  IRS.gov/Form8802 , to request certification of U.S. resi-
dency for purposes of claiming benefits under a tax treaty.
Certification can be requested for the current and any
prior calendar years.
Tip:  You should examine the specific treaty articles to
find if you are entitled to a tax credit, tax exemption, re-
duced rate of tax, or other treaty benefit or safeguard.
For more information on tax treaties, go to  IRS.gov/
TreatyTables .
Common Benefits
Some common tax treaty benefits are explained below.
The credits, deductions, exemptions, reductions in rate,
and other benefits provided by tax treaties are subject to
conditions and various restrictions. Benefits provided by
certain treaties are not necessarily provided by others.
Personal service income.  If you are a U.S. resident
who is in a treaty country for a limited number of days in
the tax year and you meet certain other requirements, the
payment you receive for personal services performed in
that country may be exempt from that country's income
tax.
Professors and teachers.  If you are a U.S. resident,
the payment you receive for the first 2 or 3 years that you
are teaching or doing research in a treaty country may be
exempt from that country's income tax.
Students, trainees, and apprentices.  If you are a
U.S. resident, amounts you receive from the United States
for study, research, or business, professional, and techni-
cal training in a treaty country may be exempt from a treaty
country's income tax.
Some treaties exempt non-compensatory grants, allow-
ances, and awards received from governmental and cer-
tain nonprofit organizations. Also, under certain circum-
stances, a limited amount of pay received by students,
trainees, and apprentices for the performance of services
in a treaty country may be exempt from the income tax of
many treaty countries.
Pensions and annuities.  If you are a U.S. resident,
nongovernment pensions and annuities you receive may
be exempt from the income tax of treaty countries.
Investment income.  If you are a U.S. resident, invest-
ment income, such as interest and dividends, that you re-
ceive from sources in a treaty country may be exempt from
that country's income tax or taxed at a reduced rate.
Several treaties provide exemption for capital gains
(other than from sales of real property in most cases) if
specified requirements are met.
Relief from double taxation.  In general, most trea-
ties relieve double taxation through U.S. domestic law pro-
visions that allow you to take a credit against or deduction
from U.S. tax based on the tax paid to the treaty country.
Nondiscrimination provisions.  Most U.S. tax trea-
ties provide that the treaty country cannot discriminate by
imposing more burdensome taxes on U.S. citizens who
are residents of the treaty country than it imposes on its
own citizens in the same circumstances.
Saving clauses.  U.S. treaties contain saving clauses
that provide that the treaties do not affect the U.S. taxation
of its own citizens and residents. As a result, U.S. citizens
and residents cannot generally use the treaty to reduce
their U.S. tax liability.
However, most treaties provide exceptions to saving
clauses that allow certain provisions of the treaty to be
claimed by U.S. citizens or residents, such as the non-dis-
crimination provisions. It is important that you examine the
applicable saving clause to determine if an exception ap-
plies.
More information on treaties.  Pub. 901, U.S. Tax Trea-
ties, available at  IRS.gov/Pub901 , contains an explanation
of treaty provisions that apply to amounts received by
teachers, students, workers, and government employees
and pensioners who are alien nonresidents or residents of
the United States. Because treaty provisions are generally
reciprocal, you can usually substitute “U.S.” for the name
of the treaty country whenever it appears, and vice versa
when “U.S.” appears in the treaty exemption discussions
in  Pub. 901 .
Pub. 597, Information on the United States–Canada In-
come Tax Treaty, available at  IRS.gov/Pub597 , contains
an explanation of a number of frequently used provisions
of the United States–Canada income tax treaty.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 6  Tax Treaty Benefits  27

=== PAGE 28 ===
Competent Authority
Assistance
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, you can request
assistance from the U.S. competent authority if you think
that the actions of the United States, a treaty country, or
both, cause or will cause you to incur a tax situation not in-
tended  by  the  treaty  between  the  two  countries.  You
should  read  any  treaty  articles,  including  the  mutual
agreement procedure article, that apply in your situation.
The U.S. competent authority cannot consider requests
involving countries with which the United States does not
have a tax treaty.
Instructions for how to prepare and submit a request
are available at  IRS.gov/CompetentAuthority .
Your  request  for  competent  authority  consideration
should be addressed to:
Commissioner
Large Business and International Division
1111 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20224
SE:LB:TTPO:APMA:TAIT:K
NCA 570-03
(Attention: TAIT)
Obtaining Copies of Tax
Treaties
You can get complete information about treaty provisions
from the taxing authority in the country from which you re-
ceive income or from the treaty itself. You can obtain the
text  of  most  U.S.  treaties  at  IRS.gov/Businesses/
International-Businesses/United-States-Income-Tax-
Treaties-A-to-Z . Additional information on tax treaties is
available  at  IRS.gov/Individuals/International-Taxpayers/
Tax-Treaties .
7.
How To Get Tax Help
If you are overseas and need tax help, see  Taxpayer As-
sistance Outside the United States,  later.
Taxpayer Assistance Inside the
United States
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to  IRS.gov  to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax  reform.  Tax  reform  legislation  impacting  federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act on July
4, 2025. Go to  IRS.gov/OBBB  for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return.  After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R,  1099-MISC,  1099-NEC,  etc.);  unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation.  Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.
•  Free File.  This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to  IRS.gov/FreeFile  to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.
•  VITA.  The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)
program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to  IRS.gov/
VITA , download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.
•  TCE.  The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-
gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to  IRS.gov/TCE  or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.
•  MilTax.  Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource  ( MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax ).
28  Chapter 7  How To Get Tax Help  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 29 ===
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of
income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.  Go to
IRS.gov/Tools  for the following.
•  The  Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant  ( IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant ) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).
•  The  Online EIN Application  ( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.
•  The  Tax Withholding Estimator  ( IRS.gov/W4App )
makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
•  The  Sales Tax Deduction Calculator  ( IRS.gov/
SalesTax ) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions.  On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.
•  IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
•  IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.
•  IRS.gov/Forms : Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.
•  You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?  There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
•  Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-
racy of your return,
•  Required to sign the return, and
•  Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you're ultimately responsible for providing all the
information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
parer, go to  Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer  on IRS.gov.
CAUTION
!
Employers can register to use Business Services On-
line.  The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at  SSA.gov/employer  for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account.  If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax in-
formation on record with the IRS and do more with a busi-
ness tax account. Go to  IRS.gov/BusinessAccount  for
more information.
IRS social media.  Go to  IRS.gov/SocialMedia  to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-
mation with you.  Don’t  post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, in-
formative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.
•  Youtube.com/irsvideos .
•  Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.  The
IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Serv-
ice is a federally funded program and is available at Tax-
payer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
every VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in
Spanish,  Mandarin,  Cantonese,  Korean,  Vietnamese,
Russian, and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility  Helpline  available  for  taxpayers  with
disabilities.  Taxpayers who need information about ac-
cessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessi-
bility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in al-
ternative media formats (for example, braille, large print,
audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have ac-
cess to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or
account-related issues, go to  IRS.gov/LetUsHelp .
Alternative media preference.  Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the fol-
lowing formats.
•  Standard Print.
•  Large Print.
•  Braille.
•  Audio (MP3).
•  Plain Text File (TXT).
•  Braille Ready File (BRF).
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 7  How To Get Tax Help  29

=== PAGE 30 ===
Disasters.  Go to  IRS.gov/DisasterRelief  to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications.  Go to  IRS.gov/
Forms  to view, download, or print all the forms, instruc-
tions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms  to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms.  You'll need an IRS Online Ac-
count (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
your  documents  to  support  your  submission.  Go  to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms  for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format.  Download and view most tax publications and
instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at  IRS.gov/eBooks .
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access  your  online  account  (individual  taxpayers
only).  Go to  IRS.gov/Account  to securely access infor-
mation about your federal tax account.
•  View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.
•  See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.
•  Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.
•  Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.
•  View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
•  Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-
fessionals.
Get a transcript of your return.  With an online ac-
count, you can access a variety of information to help you
during the filing season. You can get a transcript, review
your most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted
gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account .
Tax Pro Account.  This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to  IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount .
Using direct deposit.  The safest and easiest way to re-
ceive a tax refund is to  e-file  and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
rectly  into  your  financial  account.  Direct  deposit  also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you  don’t  have  a  bank  account,  go  to  IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit  for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting  and  resolving  your  tax-related  identity
theft issues.
•  Tax-related identity theft happens when someone
steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
•  The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by
email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-
phone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.
•  Go to  IRS.gov/IdentityTheft , the IRS Identity Theft
Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-
nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.
•  Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are
six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-
vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
vents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to  IRS.gov/IPPIN .
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
•  Go to  IRS.gov/Refunds .
•  Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-
vice to check your refund status.
•  Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.  The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electroni-
cally are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars.  Digital assets
are  not  accepted. Go to  IRS.gov/Payments  for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following op-
tions.
•  IRS Direct Pay : Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s
free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within two days of scheduled pay-
ment.
•  Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet : Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.
•  Electronic Funds Withdrawal : Schedule a payment
when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professional.
CAUTION
!
30  Chapter 7  How To Get Tax Help  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 31 ===
•  Electronic Federal Tax Payment System : This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
•  Check or Money Order : Mail your payment to the ad-
dress listed on the notice or instructions.
•  Cash : You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.
•  Same-Day Wire : You may be able to do same-day
wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
Note:  The IRS uses the latest encryption technology
to ensure that the electronic payments you make online,
by phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app
are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and
easy.
What if I can’t pay now?  Go to  IRS.gov/Payments  for
more information about your options.
•  Apply for an  online payment agreement  ( IRS.gov/
OPA ) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive im-
mediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.
•  Use the  Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier  to see if
you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to  IRS.gov/OIC .
Filing an amended return.  Go to  IRS.gov/Form1040X
for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return.  Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR  to track the status of Form 1040-X amen-
ded returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sys-
tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding  an  IRS  notice  or  letter  you’ve  re-
ceived.  Go to  IRS.gov/Notices  to find additional informa-
tion about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.  You may be able use the
Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS
notices and letters by securely uploading required docu-
ments online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT .
Schedule LEP.  You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written com-
munications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began pro-
viding translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
CAUTION
!
Contacting your local TAC.  Keep in mind, many ques-
tions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to  IRS.gov/LetUsHelp  for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in ad-
vance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to  IRS.gov/TACLocator  to
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available serv-
ices, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us op-
tion and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Con-
gress.
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an  Independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS  helps  taxpayers  resolve  problems  with  the  IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.
How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to re-
solve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS.  Our services are free .
•  TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), in-
cluding individuals, businesses, and exempt organiza-
tions. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn't working as it should.
•  To get help any time with general tax topics, visit
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov . The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.
•  TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems
that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic is-
sues at  www.IRS.gov/SAMS . (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)
Publication 54 (12-2025)  Chapter 7  How To Get Tax Help  31

=== PAGE 32 ===
How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:
•  Go to  www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us ,
•  Check your local directory, or
•  Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights  for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encoun-
ter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.
Taxpayer Assistance Outside
the United States
If you are outside the United States, you can call
267-941-1000 (English-speaking only). This num-
ber is not toll free.
Fax 681-247-3101 (for international tax account
issues only).
If you wish to write instead of calling, please ad-
dress your letter to:
Internal Revenue Service
International Accounts
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0725
Additional contacts for taxpayers who live outside the Uni-
ted  States  are  available  at  IRS.gov/help/Contact-My-
Local-Office-Internationally .
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS).  If you live outside
the United States, you can contact TAS at:
Internal Revenue Service
Taxpayer Advocate Service
City View Plaza, 48 Carr 165, 5th floor, Suite 2000
Guaynabo, PR 00968-8000
You can also contact TAS by using the following
methods.
•  Telephone —15.15.56.46.827. Your call will be auto-
matically routed to Hawaii or Puerto Rico depending
on your location. If you select Spanish, your call will be
routed to the Puerto Rico office for assistance.
•  Fax —304-707-9793.
•  Email — tas.international@irs.gov .
For more information on TAS and contacts if you
are  outside  of  the  United  States,  go  to
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Get-Help/
International/ .
32  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 33 ===
Questions and Answers
This  section  answers  tax-related  questions  commonly
asked by taxpayers living abroad.
Filing Requirements—Where, When, and How
1) When are U.S. income tax returns due?
Generally, for calendar-year taxpayers, U.S. income tax re-
turns are due on April 15. If you are a U.S. citizen or resi-
dent and both your tax home and your abode are outside
the United States and Puerto Rico on the regular due
date, an automatic extension is granted to June 15 for fil-
ing the return. Interest will be charged on any tax due, as
shown on the return, from April 15.
2) I am going abroad this year and expect to qualify
for the foreign earned income exclusion. How can I
secure an extension of time to file my return, when
should I file my return, and what forms are required?
a) You should file  Form 2350  by the due date of your re-
turn to request an extension of time to file.  Form 2350  is a
special form for those U.S. citizens or residents abroad
who expect to qualify for the foreign earned income exclu-
sion or the housing exclusion or deduction under either
the bona fide residence test or physical presence test and
would like to have an extension of time to delay filing until
after they have qualified.
b) If the extension is granted, you should file your return
after you qualify, but by the approved extension date.
c) You must file your  Form 1040 or 1040-SR  with  Form
2555 .
3) My entire income qualifies for the foreign earned
income exclusion. Must I file a tax return?
Generally, yes. Every U.S. citizen or resident who receives
income must file a U.S. income tax return unless total in-
come without regard to the foreign earned income exclu-
sion is below an amount based on filing status. The in-
come levels for filing purposes are discussed under  filing
requirements  in chapter 1.
4) I was sent abroad by my company in November of
last year. I plan to secure an extension of time on
Form 2350 to file my tax return for last year because I
expect to qualify for the foreign earned income
exclusion under the physical presence test. However,
if my company recalls me to the United States before
the end of the qualifying period and I find I will not
qualify for the exclusion, how and when should I file
my return?
If your regular filing date has passed, you should file a re-
turn,  Form 1040 or 1040-SR , as soon as possible for last
year. Include a statement with this return noting that you
have returned to the United States and won’t qualify for
the foreign earned income exclusion. You must report your
worldwide income on the return. If you paid a foreign tax
on the income earned abroad, you may be able to either
deduct this tax as an itemized deduction or claim it as a
credit against your U.S. income tax.
However, if you pay the tax due after the regular due
date, interest will be charged from the regular due date
until the date the tax is paid.
5) I am a U.S. citizen and have no taxable income
from the United States, but I have substantial income
from a foreign source. Am I required to file a U.S.
income tax return?
Yes. All U.S. citizens and resident aliens are subject to
U.S. tax on their worldwide income. If you paid taxes to a
foreign government on income from sources outside the
United States, you may be able to claim a foreign tax
credit against your U.S. income tax liability for the foreign
taxes paid.  Form 1116  is used to figure the allowable
credit.
6) I am a U.S. citizen who has retired, and I expect to
remain in a foreign country. Do I have any further
U.S. tax obligations?
Your U.S. tax obligation on your income is the same as
that of a retired person living in the United States. (See the
discussion on  filing requirements  in chapter 1 of this publi-
cation.)
7) I have been a bona fide resident of a foreign
country for over 5 years. Is it necessary for me to pay
estimated tax?
U.S. taxpayers overseas have the same requirements for
paying estimated tax as those in the United States. See
the discussion under  Estimated Tax Payments  in chap-
ter 1.
Overseas taxpayers should not include in their estima-
ted income any income they receive that is or will be ex-
empt from U.S. taxation.
Overseas taxpayers can deduct their estimated hous-
ing deduction in figuring their estimated tax.
The first installment of estimated tax is due on April 15
of the year for which the income is earned.
8) Will a check payable in foreign currency be
acceptable in payment of my U.S. tax?
Generally, only U.S. currency is acceptable for payment of
income tax. However, if you are a Fulbright grantee, see
Fulbright Grant  in chapter 1.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  33

=== PAGE 34 ===
9) I have met the test for physical presence in a
foreign country and am filing returns for 2 years.
Must I file a separate Form 2555 with each return?
Yes. A  Form 2555  must be filed with each  Form 1040 or
1040-SR  tax  return  on  which  the  benefits  of  income
earned abroad are claimed.
10) Does a Form 2555 with a Schedule C or Form W-2
attached constitute a return?
No. The  Form 2555 ,  Schedule C , and  Form W-2  are
merely attachments and do not relieve you of the require-
ment to file a  Form 1040 or 1040-SR  to show the sources
of  income  reported  and  the  exclusions  or  deductions
claimed.
11) On Form 2350, Application for Extension of Time
To File U.S. Income Tax Return, I stated that I would
qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion
under the physical presence test. If I qualify under
the bona fide residence test, can I file my return on
that basis?
Yes. You can claim the foreign earned income exclusion
and the foreign housing exclusion or deduction under ei-
ther test as long as you meet the requirements. You are
not bound by the test indicated in the application for ex-
tension of time. You must be sure, however, that you file
the  Form 1040 or 1040-SR  by the date approved on  Form
2350  because a return filed after that date may be subject
to a failure-to-file penalty.
If you will not qualify under the bona fide residence test
until a date later than the extension granted under the
physical presence rule, apply for a new extension to a
date 30 days beyond the date you expect to qualify as a
bona fide resident.
12) I am a U.S. citizen who worked in the United
States for 6 months last year. I accepted employment
overseas in July of last year and expect to qualify for
the foreign earned income exclusion. Should I file a
return and pay tax on the income earned in the
United States during the first 6 months and then
when I qualify file another return covering the last 6
months of the year?
No. You have the choice of one of the following two meth-
ods of filing your return.
a) You can file your return when due under the regular
filing rules, report all your income without excluding your
foreign earned income, and pay the tax due. After you
have qualified for the exclusion, you can file an amended
return,  Form 1040-X , accompanied by  Form 2555 , for a re-
fund of any excess tax paid.
b) You can postpone the filing of your tax return by ap-
plying on  Form 2350  for an extension of time to file to a
date 30 days beyond the date you expect to qualify under
either  the  bona  fide  residence  test  or  the  physical
presence test, then file your return reflecting the exclusion
of foreign earned income. This allows you to file only once
and saves you from paying the tax and waiting for a re-
fund. However, interest is charged on any tax due on the
postponed tax return, but interest is not paid on refunds
paid within 45 days after the return is filed.
13) I am a U.S. citizen. I have lived abroad for a
number of years and recently realized that I should
have been filing U.S. income tax returns. How do I
correct this oversight in not having filed returns for
these years?
File the late returns as soon as possible, stating your rea-
son for filing late. For advice on filing the returns, you
should contact an IRS representative.
14) In 2019, I qualified to exclude my foreign earned
income, but I did not claim this exclusion on the
return I filed in 2020. I paid all outstanding taxes with
the return. Can I file a claim for refund now?
It is too late to claim this refund because a claim for refund
must be filed within 3 years from the date the return was
filed or 2 years from the date the tax was paid, whichever
is later. A return filed before the due date is considered
filed on the due date.
Meeting the Requirements of Either the Bona Fide
Residence Test or the Physical Presence Test
1) I recently came to Country X to work for the
Orange Tractor Co. and I expect to be here for 5 or 6
years. I understand that upon the completion of 1 full
year, I will qualify for an exclusion or deduction
under the bona fide residence test. Is this correct?
Not necessarily. The law provides that to qualify under this
test for the foreign earned income exclusion, the foreign
housing exclusion, and/or the foreign housing deduction,
a person must be a bona fide resident of a foreign country
or countries for an uninterrupted period that includes an
entire tax year.
If, like most U.S. citizens, you file your return on a calen-
dar-year basis, the tax year referred to in the law would be
from January 1 to December 31 of any particular year. Un-
less you established residence in Country X on January 1,
it would be more than 1 year before you would be a bona
fide resident of a foreign country. Once you have comple-
ted your qualifying period, however, you are entitled to ex-
clude the income or to claim the housing exclusion or de-
duction  from  the  date  you  established  bona  fide
residence.
2) I understand the physical presence test to be
simply a matter of being physically present in a
foreign country for at least 330 days within 12
consecutive months, but what are the criteria of the
bona fide residence test?
34  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 35 ===
To be a bona fide resident of a foreign country, you must
show that you entered a foreign country intending to re-
main there for an indefinite or prolonged period and, to
that end, you are making your home in that country. Con-
sideration  is  given  to  the  type  of  quarters  occupied,
whether your family went with you, the type of visa, the
employment agreement, and any other factor pertinent to
show whether your stay in the foreign country is indefinite
or prolonged.
To claim the foreign earned income exclusion or foreign
housing exclusion or deduction under this test, the period
of foreign residence must include 1 full tax year (usually
January 1–December 31), but once you meet this time re-
quirement, you figure the exclusions and/or the deduction
from the date the residence actually began.
3) To meet the qualification of “an uninterrupted
period that includes an entire tax year,” do I have to
be physically present in a foreign country for the
entire year?
No.  “Uninterrupted”  refers  to  the  bona  fide  residence
proper and not to the physical presence of the individual.
During the period of bona fide residence in a foreign coun-
try, even during the first full year, you can leave the country
for brief and temporary trips back to the United States or
elsewhere for vacation or even for business. To preserve
your status as a bona fide resident of a foreign country,
you must have a clear intention of returning from those
trips, without unreasonable delay, to your foreign resi-
dence.
4) I am a U.S. citizen and during 2022 was a bona fide
resident of Country X. On January 15, 2023, I was
notified that I was to be assigned to Country Y. I was
recalled to New York for 90 days of orientation and
then went to Country Y, where I have been since.
Although I was not in Country Y on January 1, I was a
bona fide resident of Country X and was in Country Y
on December 31, 2023. My family remained in
Country X until completion of the orientation period,
and my household goods were shipped directly to
my new post. Am I a bona fide resident of a foreign
country for 2023, or must I wait for the entire year of
2024 to become one?
Because you did not break your period of foreign resi-
dence, you would continue to be a bona fide resident of a
foreign country for 2023.
5) Due to illness, I returned to the United States
before I completed my qualifying period to claim the
foreign earned income exclusion. Can I figure the
exclusion for the period I resided abroad?
No. You aren’t entitled to any exclusion of foreign earned
income because you did not complete your qualifying pe-
riod under either the bona fide residence test or physical
presence  test.  If  you  paid  foreign  tax  on  the  income
earned abroad, you may be able to claim that tax as a
deduction or as a credit against your U.S. tax.
6) Can a resident alien of the United States qualify
for an exclusion or deduction under the bona fide
residence test or the physical presence test?
Resident aliens of the United States can qualify for the for-
eign earned income exclusion, the foreign housing exclu-
sion, and/or the foreign housing deduction if they meet the
requirements of the physical presence test. Resident ali-
ens who are citizens or nationals of a country with which
the United States has an income tax treaty in effect can
also qualify under the bona fide residence test.
7) On August 13 of last year, I left the United States
and arrived in Country Z to work for the Gordon
Manufacturing Company. I expected to be able to
exclude my foreign earned income under the
physical presence test because I planned to be in
Country Z for at least 1 year. However, I was
reassigned back to the United States and left
Country Z on July 1 of this year. Can I exclude any of
my foreign earned income?
No. You can’t exclude any of the income you earned in
Country Z because you were not in a foreign country for at
least 330 full days as required under the physical pres-
ence test.
Foreign Earned Income
1) I am an employee of the U.S. Government working
abroad. Can all or part of my government income
earned abroad qualify for the foreign earned income
exclusion?
No. The foreign earned income exclusion applies to your
foreign  earned  income.  Amounts  paid  by  the  United
States or its agencies to their employees aren’t treated for
this purpose as foreign earned income.
2) I qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion
under the bona fide residence test. Does my foreign
earned income include my U.S. dividends and the
interest I receive on a foreign bank account?
No. The only income that is foreign earned income is in-
come from the performance of personal services abroad.
Investment income isn’t earned income. However, you
must include it in gross income reported on your  Form
1040 or 1040-SR .
3) My company pays my foreign income tax on my
foreign earnings. Is this taxable compensation?
Yes. The amount is compensation for services performed.
The tax paid by your company should be reported on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR , line 1h, and on  Form 2555 , Part
IV, line 22f.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  35

=== PAGE 36 ===
4) I live in an apartment in a foreign city for which my
employer pays the rent. Should I include in my
income the cost to my employer ($1,200 a month) or
the fair market value of equivalent housing in the
United States ($800 a month)?
You must include in income the fair market value (FMV) of
the facility provided, where it is provided. This will usually
be the rent your employer pays. Situations when the FMV
is not included in income are discussed in chapter 4 under
exclusion of meals and lodging .
5) My U.S. employer pays my salary into my U.S.
bank account. Is this income considered earned in
the United States or is it considered foreign earned
income?
If you performed the services to earn this salary outside
the  United  States,  your  salary  is  considered  earned
abroad. It does not matter that you are paid by a U.S. em-
ployer or that your salary is deposited in a U.S. bank ac-
count in the United States. The source of salary, wages,
commissions, and other personal service income is the
place where you perform the services.
6) What is considered a foreign country?
For the purposes of the foreign earned income exclusion
and the foreign housing exclusion or deduction, any terri-
tory under the sovereignty of a country other than the Uni-
ted States is a foreign country. U.S. territories are not trea-
ted as foreign countries.
7) What is the source of earned income?
The source of earned income is the place where the work
or personal services that produce the income are per-
formed. In other words, income received for work in a for-
eign country has its source in that country. The foreign
earned income exclusion and the foreign housing exclu-
sion or deduction are limited to earned income from sour-
ces within foreign countries.
Foreign Earned Income Exclusion
1) I qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion
and earned more than the maximum exclusion
amount during the tax year. Am I entitled to the
maximum exclusion?
Not  necessarily.  Although  you  qualify  for  the  foreign
earned income exclusion, you may not have met either the
bona fide residence test or the physical presence test for
your entire tax year. If you didn’t meet either of these tests
for your entire tax year, you must prorate the maximum ex-
clusion based on the number of days that you did meet ei-
ther test during the year.
2) How do I qualify for the foreign earned income
exclusion?
To be eligible, you must have a tax home in a foreign
country and be a U.S. citizen or resident alien. You must
be either a bona fide resident of a foreign country or coun-
tries for an uninterrupted period that includes an entire tax
year, or you must be physically present in a foreign coun-
try or countries for at least 330 full days during any period
of 12 consecutive months. U.S. citizens may qualify under
either test. The physical presence test applies to all resi-
dent aliens, while the bona fide residence test applies to
resident aliens who are citizens or nationals of a country
with which the United States has an income tax treaty in
effect.
Your tax home must be in the foreign country or coun-
tries throughout your period of residence or presence. For
this purpose, your period of physical presence is the 330
full days during which you are present in a foreign country
not the 12 consecutive months during which those days
occur.
3) Is it true that my foreign earned income exclusion
cannot exceed my foreign earned income?
Yes. The amount of the exclusion is limited each year to
the amount of your foreign earned income after reducing
that income by the foreign housing exclusion. The foreign
earned income must be earned during the part of the tax
year that you have your tax home abroad and meet either
the bona fide residence test or the physical presence test.
4) My wife and I are both employed, reside together,
and file a joint return. We meet the qualifications for
claiming the foreign earned income exclusion. Do we
each figure a separate foreign earned income
exclusion and foreign housing exclusion?
You figure your foreign earned income exclusion sepa-
rately because you both have foreign earned income. The
amount of the exclusion for each of you can’t exceed your
separate foreign earned incomes.
You may figure your foreign housing exclusion either
separately or jointly. See  Married Couples  in chapter 4 for
further details.
Social Security and Railroad Retirement Benefits
1) Are U.S. social security benefits taxable?
Benefits received by U.S. citizens and resident aliens may
be taxable, depending on the total amount of income and
the filing status of the taxpayer. Under certain treaties,
U.S. social security benefits are exempt from U.S. tax if
taxed by the country of residence.
Benefits similar to social security received from other
countries by U.S. citizens or residents may be taxable.
(Refer to U.S. tax treaties with various countries for any
benefit granted by the treaty.)
2) As a U.S. citizen or resident alien, how do I figure
the amount of my U.S. social security benefits to
include in gross income?
36  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 37 ===
See Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad
Retirement Benefits, available at  IRS.gov/Pub915  to figure
if any of your benefits are includible in income.
3) How are railroad retirement benefits taxed?
The part of a tier 1 railroad retirement benefit that is equiv-
alent to the social security benefit you would have been
entitled to receive if the railroad employee's work had
been covered under the social security system rather than
the railroad retirement system is treated the same as a so-
cial security benefit, discussed above.
The other part of a tier 1 benefit that is not considered a
social security equivalent benefit is treated like a private
pension or annuity, as are tier 2 railroad retirement bene-
fits. Vested dual benefits and supplemental annuities are
also treated like private pensions but are fully taxable.
The proper amounts of the social security equivalent
part of tier 1 benefits and any special guaranty benefits
are shown on the Form RRB-1099 that you receive from
the Railroad Retirement Board. The taxable amounts of
the non-social security equivalent part of tier 1, tier 2, ves-
ted dual benefits, and supplemental annuities are shown
on the Form RRB-1099-R that you receive from the Rail-
road Retirement Board.
Social Security Tax and Self-Employment Tax
1) I am a minister with earned income from abroad
and expect to qualify for the foreign earned income
exclusion. How do I pay my self-employment tax?
File a  Form 1040 or 1040-SR  with  Schedule SE (Form
1040)  and  Form 2555 . Figure your self-employment tax on
Schedule SE (Form 1040)  and enter it on  Schedule 2
(Form 1040)  as the tax due with the return.
2) Because I expect to qualify for the foreign earned
income exclusion, I have requested and received an
extension of time until January 30, 2025, to file my
2023 return. However, because I will be paying
self-employment tax on my spouse's income, should
I file a 2023 return when due, pay the
self-employment tax, and then file another return
when I qualify for the exclusion?
No. You don’t need to file a 2023  Form 1040 or 1040-SR
(the regular income tax return) when due if you have re-
ceived an extension. Instead, you should pay enough esti-
mated tax to cover the self-employment tax and any in-
come tax that would be due after taking out the amount of
excludable income.
Income Tax Withholding
1) How can I get my employer to stop withholding
federal income taxes from wages while I am overseas
and eligible for the foreign earned income exclusion?
File a statement in duplicate with your employer stating
that withholding should be reduced because you meet the
bona fide residence test or physical presence test. Also,
see the following question.
2) Does the IRS provide forms to be used by
employees requesting employers to stop withholding
income tax from wages they expect to be excluded
as income earned abroad?
Yes.  Form 673  is a sample statement that can be used by
individuals who expect to qualify for the foreign earned in-
come exclusion under the bona fide residence test or the
physical presence test.
3) I am a U.S. citizen residing overseas, and I receive
dividend and interest income from U.S. sources from
which tax is being withheld at a rate of 30%. How can
I have this situation corrected?
File  Form W-9  (indicating that you are a U.S. citizen) with
the withholding agents who are paying you the dividends
and interest. This is their authority to stop withholding the
30% income tax at the source on payments due to you.
4) As a U.S. citizen receiving dividend and interest
income from the United States from which tax has
been withheld, do I report the net dividend and
interest income on my return, or do I report the gross
amount and take credit for the tax withheld?
You must report the gross amount of the income received
and take a tax credit for the tax withheld. This is to your
advantage because the tax withheld is deducted in full
from the tax due. It is also advisable to attach a statement
to your return explaining this tax credit so there will be no
question as to the amount of credit allowable.
Deductions
1) Can I claim a foreign tax credit even though I do
not itemize deductions?
Yes. You can claim the foreign tax credit even though you
don’t itemize deductions.
2) I had to pay customs duty on a few things I
brought back with me from Europe last summer. Can
I include customs fees with my other deductible
taxes?
No. Customs duties, like federal excise taxes, aren’t de-
ductible.
3) What types of foreign taxes are deductible?
Generally, foreign income taxes are deductible as itemized
deductions. Foreign income taxes are deductible only if
you do not claim the foreign tax credit. Foreign income
Publication 54 (12-2025)  37

=== PAGE 38 ===
taxes paid on excluded income aren’t deductible as an
itemized deduction.
Other foreign taxes, such as real property or personal
property taxes, are only deductible if you incurred the ex-
penses in a trade or business or in the production of in-
come.
Note:  Foreign income taxes are usually claimed under
the credit provisions, if they apply, because this is more
advantageous in most cases.
Scholarship and Fellowship Grantees
1) I am a Fulbright grantee. What documentation
must I attach to my return?
a) There are no special tax forms for Fulbright grantees.
File on a regular  Form 1040 or 1040-SR .
b) If you claim exemption as a scholarship or fellowship
grantee, submit brochures and correspondence describ-
ing the grant and your duties.
c) If you are located in a foreign country and wish to pay
tax in foreign currency, you should submit a certified state-
ment showing that you were a Fulbright grantee and at
least 70% of the grant was paid in nonconvertible foreign
currency.
2) I taught and lectured abroad under taxable grants.
What expenses can I deduct?
You may be able to deduct your travel, meals, and lodging
expenses if you are temporarily absent from your regular
place of employment. For more information about deduct-
ing travel, meals, and lodging expenses, see Pub. 463,
Travel,  Gift,  and  Car  Expenses,  available  at  IRS.gov/
Pub463 .
General Tax Questions
1) Can IRS personnel recommend tax practitioners
who prepare returns?
No. IRS employees aren’t permitted to recommend tax
practitioners who prepare income tax returns.
2) I haven’t received my refund from last year's
return. Can I claim the credit against this year's tax?
No. That would cause problems to both years' returns. If
your last year's refund is overdue, call or write the IRS. If
you write to the IRS, be sure to include your social security
number (or individual taxpayer identification number) in
the letter.
3) I forgot to include interest income when I filed my
return last week. What should I do?
To correct a mistake of this sort, you should prepare  Form
1040-X . Include the omitted interest income, refigure the
tax, and send the form as soon as possible along with any
additional tax due to the Internal Revenue Service Center
where you filed your return. You may also be able to file
your  Form 1040-X  electronically.
Use  Form 1040-X  to correct an individual  Form 1040 or
1040-SR  income tax return filed for any year for which the
period of limitations has not expired (usually 3 years after
the due date of the return filed, or 2 years after the tax was
paid, whichever is later).
4) I am a U.S. citizen and because I expect to qualify
for the foreign earned income exclusion, all my
foreign income (which consists solely of salary) will
be exempt from U.S. tax. Do I get any tax benefit from
income tax I paid on this salary to a foreign country
during the tax year?
No. You can’t take either a tax credit or a tax deduction for
foreign income taxes paid on income that is exempt from
U.S. tax because of the foreign earned income exclusion.
5) I am a U.S. citizen stationed abroad. I made a
personal loan to a nonresident alien who later went
bankrupt. Can I claim a bad debt loss for this
money?
Yes. The loss should be reported as a short-term capital
loss on  Schedule D (Form 1040) . You have the burden of
proving the validity of the loan, the subsequent bank-
ruptcy, and the recovery or nonrecovery from the loan.
6) With which countries does the United States have
tax treaties?
Table 3 under the list of tax treaty tables at  IRS.gov/
Individuals/International-Taxpayers/Tax-Treaty-Tables  lists
those countries with which the United States has income
tax treaties.
7) I am a retired U.S. citizen living in Europe. My only
income is from U.S. sources on which I pay U.S.
taxes. I am taxed on the same income in the foreign
country where I reside. How do I avoid double
taxation?
If you reside in a country that has an income tax treaty
with the United States, the treaty will generally contain
provisions to eliminate double taxation. Many treaties will
provide reduced rates for various types of income. Trea-
ties often provide reciprocal credits in one country for the
tax paid to the other country. Nontreaty countries, depend-
ing on their laws, may give the same type of credit.
If double taxation with a treaty country exists and you
cannot resolve the problem with the tax authorities of the
foreign country, you can contact the U.S. competent au-
thority for assistance. See  chapter 6  for information on re-
questing consideration.
8) My total income after claiming the foreign earned
income and housing exclusions consists of $5,000
taxable wages. Am I entitled to claim the earned
income credit?
38  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 39 ===
No. If you claim the foreign earned income exclusion, the
foreign housing exclusion, or the foreign housing deduc-
tion, you can’t claim the earned income credit.
9) I am claiming the foreign earned income
exclusion. Can I take the additional child tax credit?
No. If you claim the foreign earned income exclusion, the
foreign housing exclusion, and/or the foreign housing de-
duction, you can't claim the additional child tax credit.
10) Last May, my employer transferred me to our
office in Puerto Rico. I understand that my salary
earned in Puerto Rico is tax exempt. Is this correct?
As long as your employer is not the U.S. Government, all
income from sources within Puerto Rico is exempt from
U.S. tax if you are a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico dur-
ing the entire tax year. The income you received from Pu-
erto Rican sources the year you moved to Puerto Rico is
not exempt. The tax paid to Puerto Rico in the year you
moved to Puerto Rico can be claimed as a foreign tax
credit on  Form 1116 .
11) I am a U.S. citizen married to a nonresident alien.
Can I qualify to use the head of household tax rates?
Yes. Although your nonresident alien spouse cannot qual-
ify you as a head of household, you may qualify if you
maintain a household for a qualifying child or other rela-
tive.
If your spouse was a nonresident alien at any time dur-
ing the year and you do not choose to treat your nonresi-
dent alien spouse as a resident alien, then you are treated
as unmarried for head of household purposes. You must
have another qualifying person and meet the other tests to
be eligible to file as head of household. You can use the
head of a household column in the Tax Table or Section D
of the Tax Computation Worksheet.
It may be advantageous to choose to treat your nonres-
ident alien spouse as a U.S. resident and file a joint in-
come tax return. Once you make the choice, however, you
and your spouse must each report your worldwide income
for that and all future years unless or until the choice is
suspended or terminated.
For more information on head of household filing sta-
tus, see Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and
Filing Information, available at  IRS.gov/Pub501 .
Penalties and Interest
1) Does the June 15 extended due date for filing my
return because both my tax home and my abode are
outside the United States and Puerto Rico on the
regular due date relieve me from having to pay
interest on tax not paid by April 15?
No. An extension, whether an automatic extension or one
requested in writing, does not relieve you of the payment
of interest on the tax due as of April 15 following the year
for which the return is filed. The interest should be inclu-
ded in your payment.
2) If I wait to file my return until I qualify for the
foreign earned income exclusion, I will be charged
interest on the U.S. tax I will owe. To avoid being
charged interest, can I file my return on time,
reporting only my taxable income, excluding my
salary for services abroad that will be exempt after I
have met the qualifications?
No. If you file a return before you qualify for the exclusion,
you must report all income, including all income for serv-
ices performed abroad, and pay tax on all of it. After you
meet the qualifications, you can file a claim for refund by
excluding the income earned abroad. If you defer the filing
of your return, you can avoid interest on tax due on your
return to be filed by paying the tax you estimate you will
owe with your request for an extension of time to file on
Form 2350  or by paying enough estimated tax to cover
any tax that you expect will be due on the return.
Publication 54 (12-2025)  39

=== PAGE 40 ===
To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us. Index
A
Alien :
Resident  3
Apprentices, treaty benefits for  27
Assistance  ( See  Tax help)
B
Bilateral social security
agreements  15
Blocked income  8
Bona fide residence test :
Meeting the requirements  34
C
Carryover of housing deduction  21
Child tax credit  18
Clergy, self-employment tax on  16
Competent authority assistance  28
Contributions :
To foreign charitable
organizations  23
To IRAs  23
Conventions, income tax  27
Credit
Earned income  18
Foreign tax  14 ,  23 - 25
Related to excluded income  22
Currency :
Foreign  7
D
Deductions
Contributions to foreign charitable
organizations  23
Foreign taxes  23 - 25 ,  37
Housing, foreign  21
IRA contributions  23
Related to excluded income  22
Reporting  25
Deposit of foreign currency with
disbursing officer  9
E
Earned income :
Foreign  35
Earned income credit  18
Employer-provided amounts  20
Estimated tax  11
Exclusion
Foreign earned income  19
Housing  20 ,  21
Extensions
Filing income tax return  5
Meeting bona fide residence or
physical presence test
F
Figuring actual tax  8
Figuring estimated tax on
nonconvertible foreign
currency  8
Filing information
Estimated tax  11
Filing requirements  5
Nonresident spouse treated as
resident  10
Filing requirements
By filing status  5
Foreign currency  7
When to file and pay  5 ,  33
Where to file  33
Foreign :
Currency  7
Earned income  35
Household, second  20
Foreign currency, deposit with
disbursing officer  9
Foreign earned income exclusion
Defined  19
Earned income credit
Limit  36
Requirements  17
Revoking choice  19
Foreign housing exclusion/
deduction
Carryover of deduction
Deduction, figuring  21
Exclusion, figuring  20 ,  21
Housing amount  19
Housing expenses  20
Married couples  21
Requirements  17
Second foreign household  20
Foreign taxes
Credit for  14 ,  23 - 25
Deduction for  23 ,  25 ,  37
Paid on excluded income
Form :
1040-ES  11
1040-X  10
1116  24
2032  15
2350
3115  8
4361  16
4868
673
8689  9
W-4
Frequently asked questions
(FAQs)  33 - 39
Fulbright grant  8 ,  38
G
General tax questions  38
Green card test  3
Guam :
Residents of  9
Where to file
H
Housing
Amount  19
Deduction  19 ,  21
Exclusion  19 - 21
Expenses
I
Income :
Apprentices, treaty benefits for  27
Blocked  8
Earned  35
Investment, treaty benefits for  27
Pensions and annuities  27
Personal service, treaty benefits  27
Professors, treaty benefits for  27
Railroad retirement benefits  36
Social security benefits  36
Students, treaty benefits for  27
Teachers, treaty benefits for  27
Trainees, treaty benefits for  27
Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs)  23
Investment income, treaty benefits
for  27
L
Limit on :
Foreign housing deduction  21
Housing expenses
M
Married couples  21
N
Nonresident spouse
Social security number  10
Treated as resident  10
Northern Mariana Islands :
Residents of  9
Where to file
P
Pay for personal services  27
Paying U.S. tax in foreign
currency  8
Payment of tax  5
Penalties and interest  39
Pensions and annuities :
Income from  27
40  Publication 54 (12-2025)

=== PAGE 41 ===
Withholding from  14
Physical presence test :
Meeting the requirements  34
Professors, treaty benefits for  27
Publications  ( See  Tax help)
Q
Questions and answers  33 - 39
R
Railroad retirement benefits  36
Resident alien defined  3
Revoking choice to exclude  19
S
Scholarship and fellowship
grants  38
Second foreign household  20 ,  21
Self-employment tax :
Clergy  16
Exemption from  17
How to pay  37
Who must pay  16
Social security and Medicare
taxes  14
Social security benefits  36
Social security number :
Nonresident spouse  10
Students, treaty benefits for  27
Substantial presence test  3
T
Tax help  28
Tax treaties :
Benefits of  27
Competent authority assistance  28
Obtaining copies of  28
Purpose of  27
Teachers, treaty benefits for  27
Totalization agreements  15
Trainees, treaty benefits for  27
Treaties  ( See  Tax treaties)
V
Virgin Islands :
Nonresidents of
Residents of  9
Where to file  9
W
When to file and pay  5 ,  33
Where to file :
Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands residents  9
Guam residents  9
Virgin Islands residents,
nonresidents
Withholding :
Income tax  13 ,  37
Pension payments
Publication 54 (12-2025)  41